everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week for
this one we're talking about some
exclusive Intel 10 core CPU information
that we've collected and specifically
talking about a focus on thermal
performance for the new Intel 10 core
chip we have SK Hynix ddr5 early
specifications Intel sunsetting it's has
well series chipsets or at least a lot
of them
and video claiming that the industry is
running out of gddr5 and moving some
products over to g6 atari is new token
that's well you'll want to see that news
item just because it's not particularly
nice Intel's 10th gen 8 Series peaking
at 5.3 gigahertz and a little bit more
before that this video is brought to you
by coursers hydro ex water cooling
series of course our strength is
bringing water cooling to the masses and
it has built out cooling solutions with
industry leaders to help newcomers get
into open-loop cooling of course hair
has fittings adaptors GP water blocks
CPU water blocks pump has combos and
radiators all available in the
hydraulics line as you can see in our
footage these kits can be used to build
the beautiful open loop systems
learn more at the link in the
description below okay so first news
item is the Intel 10 core CPU thermal
focus gamers Nexus directly received
this information we've also verified the
information as accurate so this is
sourced from us for this story but we
received some information through a
system integrator about the new Intel 10
core CPU that's coming out supposed to
be on the rumored e4 90 platform that's
been discussed for at least a year now
in the Intel rumour mill but Intel is
renewing its focus on their own
performance in order to maintain higher
clocks as it adds more cores to the CPU
the new 10 core CPU will be about 100
millimeters squared smaller than a 70
900 X based on rough measurements that's
the previous 10 core chip and the HDD T
family the 7900 X of course later was
succeeded by the 10 900 X also a 10 core
on basically the same everything and
this one's supposed to be a 100
millimeter squared smaller that makes
sense it shouldn't really be a surprise
to anyone it's got half the memory
channels it has less i/o so no big
surprise there it's also going to have
the same Intel solder solution from the
9900 K
at least as far as we can tell currently
so it's still using Intel stem as they
call it and the die size is increasing
versus the 9900 K despite decreasing
risk of the 7 100x ATT chips so
ultimately what's happening is Intel is
bringing the silicon closer to the
substrate that's the biggest change here
bringing the silicon closer to substrate
bringing the IHS down and height which
might include reducing the silicon
adhesive sealant but we're not sure on
that specific aspect yet either way
they're trying to tighten the the height
of everything on the package and that
should help thermally it should bring
everything closer together and
theoretically make the heat transfer
into the IHS and therefore into the
cooler more efficient which would help
with the increase in cores adding an
extra two cores over the 900k you start
dealing with added heat obviously so oh
and trying to maintain at least the same
clocks if not better and we'll talk more
about that next week so that's the
changes that are the most significant
IHS has been slightly redesigned it's
not visually the same as the 900k IHS we
are not at this point certain if there's
any significant influence on thermals
from IHS redesign we'll look at that
once we have them in hand and more dye
surface area versus the 900k we'll also
spread the heat a bit better larger dye
does help with heat dissipation
typically a larger die coincides with a
hotter chip anyway though because you're
packing more stuff in there so that will
potentially be negated by the extra two
cores on the chip and we'll need to know
the voltage to really start drawing more
conclusions but we'll talk about that
next week too so the new tire size is
about 22 by 9 millimeters roughly
measured and that's as opposed to 19 by
9 millimeters or so of the 900k and by
22 by 14 millimeters for the 1700 X to
the 10 900 X if you prefer so as we
understand it the solution should be
improved relative to the previous CPU we
just don't know if you set them to the
same clocks and if you disable two of
the cores and you set the same voltages
it would probably be better thermally
but that's not how many of us can use it
so we need to see how it performs in the
real world the 10 core CPU will socket
in LGA 1200 motherboards this isn't news
to anyone it's confirmed at this point
we have more information as well
but we are actively verifying some of it
so we'll include that likely in next
week's hardware news episode you'll want
to check back for some more G on
exclusive information on the new ten
core CPU it's just that we we don't like
to report on it until we verify it so
give us another week for the rest of it
next one SK Hynix ddr5 specifications
despite the fact that the jeddak's
specification for ddr 5 isn't finalized
yet we know that ddr5 memory is coming
it's been in the news for several months
now as memory makers are preparing to
ramp production for both this year and
for next samsung recently talked about
its upcoming ddr5 and its EUV based d1 a
process that should enter volume
production in 2021
now SK Hynix is offering some insight
into what its ddr5 memory could look
like SK Hynix states that while
developing its ddr5 the goal is to
target a 50% increase in bandwidth per
dip in order to do this ask a high-neck
states that it adopted a 32 band
structure for ddr 5 double that of the
16 bank structure for ddr4 also ddr5
will see the burst length change between
16 and 8 in order to increase memory
access availability to fold DDR 5 will
also incorporate a same Bank refresh
function allowing the CPU to access
certain banks while others are operating
or refresh in which should improve
latent memory access all this according
to SK Hynix is intended to help ddr5
memory scale across more CPU cores as
we've entered the era of 64 cores in the
well enthusiasts desktop at least as
respects SK Hynix suggests that it's
ddr5 memory will pick up where ddr4 was
meant to top out around 3,200 megabits
per second so the biggest thing to
consider here
with memory if you weren't around for
ddr3 to for switch or ddr2 to 3
typically what happens is the first
round that comes out you lose some
performance versus the higher end
previous generation memory and that's
just I the the lower end ddr4 memory
back when it was in the early days of
2400 megahertz 26 66 megahertz was not
always better than ddr3 added
highest so you might see some of that
happening again there's always a bit of
a switchover period where it takes about
a year latency to catch on another thing
to note we've seen this question a lot
in the news items where we talk about
ddr5 coming out if you've been asking us
well should I really upgrade my platform
this year
- whatever AMD puts out whatever Intel
puts out if ddr5 is coming out next year
because then I'm limiting myself by the
memory it's a ddr4 keep in mind one very
important thing which is that again the
switchover is not instant just because
ddr5 the specification is ratified that
is going into the volume production next
year that doesn't mean that it's going
into mass-market use the same year so
they're gonna hit server data center
stuff like that and then there will be a
slower roll out to mainstream desktop
and consumer you shouldn't feel bad
about going with ddr4 this year if you
want to upgrade anyway so if you're
planning to build anyway and you're
building around the simple fact that you
don't like your system anymore or you
just want a project to keep you
entertained during quarantine or
whatever we wouldn't recommend holding
back just because of deep ddr5 coming
out versus ddr4 you're probably not
gonna be missing a whole lot at least
immediately and at the top end of ddr4
is really good right now
so buy based on your needs based on the
cpu don't sit around waiting for memory
because just because it goes into volume
production doesn't mean there's going to
be an immediate switchover there's
always a delay sometimes it's a couple
years you look at ddr4 it took a while
like probably two years to really start
catching on anyway we've seen the kits
go well beyond 4000 and even hit ddr4
5,000 but they also come with some
seriously inflated price tags and
voltage requirements and ddr5 will
seemingly start at 3200 this time and
scale all the way up to 8400 ddr5 will
also see a voltage reduction to one
point one volt and that's a pretty
market reduction over ddr4 is 1.2 volts
this has been a regular improvement in
memory as DDR iterates ddr4 5,000
currently requires 1.5 volts to operate
at the advertised frequencies keep that
in mind as well
SK Hynix will begin production of DDR 5
this year and we're gonna start seeing
volume next year
for everybody next one intel sun setting
the Haswell chip sets intel has
announced that select Haswell era
chipsets will be going yo l they are
trotting them out to pasture Intel broke
the news via its usual PC n which is a
product change notification until uses
these public PC MS to inform primarily
its business customers but also just
everybody who wants to read them about
its usual AOL or discontinuance changes
for products that are out the chipsets
be an EO Eldar under the links point
codename and they've been around a long
time there has well era as stated
they're associated with the socket LGA
1150 and the chipsets being discontinued
are as follows
q 87 H 81 c 226 8 or qm 87 hm 86 and
these are eight series chipsets that
entered the market back in 2013 and for
the process they were on that was back
on Intel's 32 nanometer process paired
with 20 nanometer fourth gen Haswell
chips for one hash for the time when
Intel's name and scheme was simpler and
had fewer numbers and letters in it the
H 81 was especially popular it served
the more economical approach it was a
common choice for the alternative to the
higher-end z87 chipset SIF you had more
of a budget didn't care about
overclocking of course the chipsets were
demarcated by features such as
overclocking as always and then new
usual usual HSI o lane assignment and
segmentation between the models was the
other differentiator
so Intel still insists upon all of these
ways of segmenting its market today it's
not really any different but some
chipsets are getting discontinued before
others the other chipsets listed here
other than H 87 were a bit more obscure
and targeting more business or
enterprise customers sometimes laptops
so if you've run into them it's most
likely been because you're buying a
board that was marketed at business
users but a lot of the time one back in
the day of this series of chipsets we
wrote a few articles about this on the
site and a lot of time you could save a
good amount of money by going with a
business-class chipset for your gaming
computer because it was like this secret
that people didn't know because I wasn't
marketed with the word gamer in it so
you'd save a lot of money and get
basically the same thing and
a lot of non overclocking instances and
use cases so the products using the
affected chipsets will still be
available to order for Intel's customers
that be not individuals but that will
still be available for order through
March 31st 2021 and final shipments will
go out September 30th 2021 that is a
long life cycle for those Nvidia
claiming the industry is running out of
gddr5 memory rumors of the gtx 1650
refresh have been circulating since
around february or so and everyone's
favorite hardware leaker momomo
underscore us on twitter seems to have
spotted listings at a german retailer
that suggests these leaks or rumors
could materialize the rumor and the
purported refresh for that matter aren't
anything outlandish it would see Nvidia
retrofit the vanilla gtx 1650 non-super
with GD dr6 memory there's already been
a precedent for this and Nvidia's past
hardware lineups so it wouldn't be out
of the norm for them and NVIDIA has
rewarmed past versions of cards like the
gtx 960 multiple times
adding GD r 5x memory if memory serves
the gtx 1060 had something like 5 or 6
versions including a 5 gigabyte model
for the china market there was a 3
gigabyte in a six gigabyte they weren't
really the same card because the core
chains but there were about five of
those and a lot of them had to do with
memory so specifically listings included
so far that momomo US has spotted the
gigabyte geforce gtx 1650 d6 OC and the
not to be confused with ddr 6 or d4 as
they commonly brand their cards that
this change the break the naming scheme
and the gigabyte geforce gtx 1650
windforce d6o see both of these carry
the d6 suffix and their name
additionally new part numbers show a
1656
in the SKU as opposed to the old SKU
showing 1650 that doesn't mean it's
going to be called the gtx 1656
that's potentially just a product naming
differentiation for supplying the SKU so
that they fall under different item
numbers but we'll see and that's
supposed to carry the GDD r6 memory the
cpus fell over again as for the upgrade
PC Gamer reached out to Nvidia for
comment
the quote was the industry is running
out of gddr5 so we've transitioned the
product to GTD r6 that was Nvidia to PC
Gamer whether or not in videos comment
is indicative of actual gddr5 supply
this really shouldn't be surprising it's
not like the industry keeps producing
the older stuff forever the industry at
large is already transitioning entirely
to DDD r6 SDRAM and that includes the
Sony Playstation 5 the Xbox series X
these are big drivers of memory big
consumers of memory as our phones and
nvidia is 20 series cards AMD is Navi 10
GPUs pretty much all GG gr 6 at this
point and it looks like everything's
gonna make the jump
Atari's new atari token next and in
between Ataris busy schedule of failing
to launch its VCS atari has also had a
packed calendar for other events and
important tasks recently gambling is one
of them getting passed around between
partners and disappointing its parents
all things Atari has done lately the
atari brand has been gutted and left to
rot on the side of the road it's got its
parasitic occupants trying to find
anything at all a value left in the
decomposing corpse of one of the
greatest game companies of all time it's
horribly sad to witness but it's our job
as proud news reporters to cover your
the most gruesome of stories and its
latest class of explaining English
idioms for ESL learners Atari is
demonstrating the meaning of the phrase
grasping at straws this is an important
class front of you who might be learning
idioms right now in English and this one
in particular looks at the company is a
new launch of its atari chain
cryptocurrency it's even got its own
website so this is build by Atari
as a real currency it's got tokens as
they're called that have no intrinsic
value in any use case except for Atari
is online casino and it's a worst
version of an arcade except the games
aren't fun but the tokens are still
useless outside of it the company by the
way literally uses the word casino to
describe its
service that it's offering for atari
chain and the casino we assume in the
announcement of this atari casino on
twitter atari probably tagged at the sec
and its tweet proudly announcing the
cryptocurrency atari emphasizes that
these are skill games and also use of
the phrase quote innovative gambling
games if you're wondering what what pray
tell innovation might exist in gambling
games well as hari's got you covered
they have games you've probably never
heard of before including one called
poker that's new
roulette and i believe it's pronounced
blackjack these are our Ataris
innovative gambling games that are
adding really no no shame of the
gambling word there and atari also
boasts quote liquidity of its token so
liquidity yes is one of the biggest
marketing points of the atari chain
token it's hard for us to believe
however that atari knows anything about
liquidity so questioning its use of that
word the company says that quote our
objective is to work on providing
liquidity to token holders we will work
on listing the atari token on exchanges
enabling token holders to exchange them
against other crypto currencies so just
like arcades from the 90s trading tokens
from one arcade to another isn't really
what we call liquidity but whatever
makes you feel better Atari the good
news for Atari is that lots of people in
the world want an ability to launder
their money and this is big business
we've heard so maybe they have an
untapped audience that they can really
reach out to with this Atari chain
currency and and and potentially start
running some ads and known hideouts of
the Bob that's where it likely get the
most CP the most the most click through
rate CTR for those of you in advertising
and when you visit Ataris website if
you're curious about this atari chain
and click on the button that says what
can I do with Atari token it's a drop
down it states that you can well
actually it doesn't say you can do
anything with it it states quote the
long-term goal is to provide as many
uses as possible this obviously will
take time if you're wondering what the
short-term goal is we'd assume it's to
make as much money as
possible before Atari gets shut down by
the government but we're not sure we're
just speculating
that's all very compelling though Atari
we hope that we can continue following
this story for when Atari opens its next
class in English idioms for ESL learners
we have a leak that their next lesson
will be on the phrase I've got a bridge
to sell you
next one or last one actually Intel's
10th gen h-series peaks at five point
three gigahertz Intel recently took the
wraps off of its new 10th gen comment
Lake age mobile chips the announcement
comes just as a nd happens to launch its
horizon 4000 renoir AP use for laptops
and that sets the stage for Intel and
Andy to battle it out in a non desktop
environment Intel's comet Lake age
consists of the I 9 10 9 8 eh k the i7
10 875 age the i7 10 850 H the i7 is at
i7 the i7 10 758 sorry it's hard to keep
these on my head the i5 10 408 the i5 1
0 3 0 0 H and surprising no one comment
Lake H is more 14 nanometer silicon with
a few plus signs added in for spice
specifically this one is a rewarmed
coffee lake at the top of the stack is
the flagship I line
10 9 8 eh K which at least follows the
naming of the desktop ATT parts the 10
980 HK has some semi predictable specs
except they don't match the h EDT specs
but whatever it's 8 cores 16 threads the
frequency is supposed to peak at five
point three gigahertz turbo boost and
that turbo boost will now hinge upon
Intel's thermal velocity boost or TVB
technology as it calls it which dictates
the turbo frequency based on thermal
conditions we'll just to say mileage
will vary depending on the laptops
cooling solutions as if Intel's naming
scheme and segmented product stack
wasn't confusing enough it seems turbo
speeds are the next thing to get
needlessly complicated although in this
instance we're now talking about
something that Nvidia stocked up for a
long time which is companies struggling
to provide a firm specification
specifically for laptop components
because they're not
exactly sure what the laptop makers are
doing and Intel and video name that you
have all caught on now that laptop
makers are not all capable of producing
a good product so they're always a bit
more hesitant and provide firm details
on the speeds so comet Lake H will
essentially have to turbo boost
frequencies depending on whether or not
Intel's TVB is enabled on the product
and more importantly whether it's
supported by the products it seems that
TVB will greatly rely upon Oh am
designing cooling solutions that are
adequate for meeting the specs
specifically for the extra head room
which suffice to say won't be am on
Intel's thin and light designs in their
entirety those laptops don't necessarily
have the space real-estate required for
a good cooling solution for the extra
boost TVB will look for an opportunity
to boost frequency beyond the normal
turbo boost based on the operating
temperature of the CPU relative to its
maximum temperature threshold and
available power budget TVB will allow an
additional two hundred megahertz of
headroom for any 10th gen CPU operating
below 65 degrees Celsius not counting
attt parts which that would be where
intel's getting its 5.3 gigahertz single
core turbo from the eye nine ten nine
eight eh k which has a non TVB turbo 5.1
gigahertz the I nine ten nine eight eh k
is also the only fully unlocked SKU
intel is listing the i7 ten 850 aged as
partial in quotes there in regards to an
unlocked multiplier intel is apparently
limiting frequency overhead to plus four
hundred megahertz with the i7 ten eight
fifty h the i7 ten eight fifty H is
probably going to be the more
interesting of the i7 parts the ten 850
H has really annoying to say is a six
core 12 thread part and as mentioned
previously it will allow partial
overclocking within thermal limits this
is the direction of silicon in the
future and Vidya was basically the first
in this space to do thermal based
boosting to the extent that it has it's
existed before but on video with its
boost behavior
really advanced that approach to silicon
so Andy was close to follow its own GPS
or
do that but more importantly and more
relevant to this story and these CPUs
are very thermal dependent now you get
extra frequency for about every five
degrees Celsius we've demonstrated it
going from plus eighty down to minus 160
degrees with liquid nitrogen so every
couple degrees you get frequency boost
for AMD and vidi has done that for years
and now it looks like Intel's going to
be moving that direction too this is a
good thing this is how the product
should perform because it allows you to
sort of kind of semi overclock it
automatically rather than designing for
the the least common denominator for
your component that you're selling so
it's a good move it's an expected one
though então seems to tout these CPUs as
being built for gamers and is keen to
drive home the frequency numbers
specifically this time but this makes
sense to the extent that there isn't as
much to behold beyond this of Intel's
fifth 14 nanometer iteration if we count
if we're counting it correctly they
spend a lot of them so it's hard to keep
track
intel's primary advantage over an D
since Rison has been and gaming now
where it's built that lead our shrinking
is in RAW frequency and single-threaded
performance Intel really has nothing
else left to boast about when it comes
to 40 nanometer silicon and no matter
how many plus signs you affixed to the
end of that number Intel's also
sprinkling in iterative upgrades such as
Thunderbolt 3 Wi-Fi 6 ax 201 although
both of these features will depend on
specific hardware requirements dictated
by OEMs for instance Thunderbolt 3 still
needs a separate Thunderbolt controller
as it's not built into the CPU itself
Intel is also up in memory support to
dual channel ddr3 933 officially
supporting a maximum of 128 gigabytes
comment leaked H will also offer Intel
octane memory support and Intel claims
that it has over 100 designs featuring
the count Lake H launch for this year
and we're going to go ahead and assume
that's that's for laptops not for the
actual SKUs but given the way the naming
is who knows they have enough numbers
now where they could have over 100 of
them if they want anyway that's it for
this one thanks for watching as always
subscribe for more go to store documents
XS net 2 helps out directly or
patreon.com slash gamers Nexus and an
important as well we've uploaded more
for our factory tour series latest was
the research and development operation
center for waterblock main
fashion check that out on the channel
we'll see you all next time
[Music]
except you can't wipe your ass with it
well I mean we're going to take a gamble
on the YouTube D monetization system and
talk about the impact of coronavirus on
the computer hardware industry yes yes
we set it but we'll only say it once
from now on at last YouTube angers that
repeated offenses of saying the word
will refer to the global pandemic mostly
as human malware though it sounds like
it might not be demonetized as much
anymore when we last for Taiwan the
situation was only just developing in
the US and Taiwan had things very
controlled and still does but things
changed drastically in the West during
the two weeks we were in Taiwan we spent
some time gathering information on the
ground as the situation developed and
learned that human malware has cost the
industry millions and motherboards and
video card production alone and that's
just the board partners in this video
will report on the numbers we've
gathered relating to delays and hardware
industry impact resulting from human
malware before that this video is
brought to you by Squarespace
Squarespace is what we've been using for
years to manage our own gamers Nexus
store and we've been incredibly happy
with the choice Squarespace makes
ecommerce easy for those interested in
starting stores but it also has powerful
tools to build all types of websites
photo galleries for photographers resume
and portfolio sites and small business
sites are all easily done through
Squarespace having built a lot of client
websites the old way before running GM
full-time we can easily recommend
Squarespace as a powerful fast solution
go to squarespace.com slash gamers Nexus
to get 10% off your first purchase with
Squarespace as the situation became much
more severe in the last week or so we
noticed a significant fall-off in
viewership against our normally very
accurate estimates for viewers our
factory tour series was on track to do
100,000 views per video at a minimum but
we've been competing against global
non-stop coverage of the pandemic we'll
be talking in this video about how it
relates to the computer hardware
industry in an objective fact-based
approach and we would like to encourage
a rational approach to the conversation
rather than a panic driven one just like
we talked about a few weeks ago when we
discouraged panic purchasing of a
commodity computer hardware so we're
going to talk about the impact of human
malware on the computer hardware
industry we have some value
to adhere from the PC side and we have
some unique information that we've
collected on the ground in Taiwan where
most of the companies that you purchase
things from are headquartered also a lot
of the factories or in the very least
supply chain level factories so we've
got some unique stuff to talk about
there the factory tour series will
continue after views for normal content
pick back up and stop competing again
with global news agencies stealing every
breath of air time our topics are broken
into three categories for this one so
the thesis if you will is as follows
where you know we talked about the
follow-up on our piece from two weeks
ago where we discouraged panic buying of
computer hardware a couple of people
have asked us how do you feel about it
now so we'll go through that we'll talk
about point number two a discussion on
production delays to new products and
potentially to Computex which would
therefore impact new products and three
factory closures and the number of units
lost to low production or factory
capacity so that's going to be units of
products not we're not talking dollar
amounts I don't have the exact cost of
the product and that's a much more
complicated equation anyway but we're
talking about how many motherboards
video cards whatever haven't made it to
the channel which would be retailers or
distributors of sorts that otherwise
would have been here if this whole thing
didn't happen so that's our three points
and the third one there should be very
interesting so we've got a lot of on the
ground literally in the factory
information when we visited Taiwan on to
the new topics production delays and
timelines first up here all this human
malware impact has caused delays to
production timelines of computer
hardware clearly we've long discussed
that Lunar New Year alone in combination
of course with a global pandemic and
more importantly combined with the
resulting panic by some people sometimes
deserved more so than others this would
all have an impact to scheduling we
didn't have many concrete examples a
couple weeks ago but after going to
Taiwan and visiting a lot of the
headquarters of these companies we do
now before talking more about the why of
production delays mostly relating to
manpower and raw material availability
we'll give some examples MSI's new x5
Saudi tomahawk was pushed back 1 to 2
months minimally it was supposed to
launch in March but amis I was unable to
get supply from its lower down supply
chain factories in order to
make the board's an example might be the
suppliers of capacitors who although
they might be operating at full capacity
can't get supply from their suppliers
like the metal suppliers or the heatsink
suppliers who can't get supply from the
metal suppliers MSI's primary factory in
shenzhen responsible for millions of
video cards and motherboards per month
was shut down for two full months as a
result of Lunar New Year and human
malware combined the Shenzhen Factory
has ten SMT lines that are 121 metres
long each the ten service mount
technology lines are responsible for
producing 1.6 million motherboards per
month and 1 million video cards per
month as of 2019 the factory requires a
staff of about 5000 people but often
operates at reduced staff because it has
trouble already finding staff in
Shenzhen typically closer to 2,500 and
this depends on order volume so that's a
lot of people who are unable to man the
factory given an extra four weeks of
unexpected total halt of production
that's 2.6 million products from one
factory and from one company that never
made it to the channel and the factory
is currently operating at a reduced
workforce due to slow returns following
quarantines and usual Lunar New Year
worker departures this factory like most
in Shenzhen was already struggling to
find enough workers under normal
conditions as a result of lack of
interest in factory jobs these days and
the service job boom in China now that
it's competing with a pandemic it's
having even more difficulty with
manpower in terms of real impact that's
again about 2.6 million products based
on numbers from last year fewer that
could have been made in one month of
extra downtime at one factory not
counting the reduction capacity from a
smaller workforce one of the many
affected products was the x5 7e tomahawk
which has now been pushed back to April
or May although may looks more likely
that gives you the first concrete
example most of these companies although
they often don't own the factories or at
least not all of the ones that they work
with they have partner factories that
they work with companies like power
logic which is responsible for making a
lot of the fans that are used in video
card heat sink fan combinations that you
see in the industry they're a lower down
supply chain manufacturer that could
also be impacted which would have again
a knock-on effect to the company that's
buying those fats which would be a
messiah EVGA Giga Byte whomever so
only to AIB Partners have any meaningful
capability of producing parts in Taiwan
which is less affected and that's
gigabyte an EVGA the gigabyte solution
they have their own factory that we've
toured before we have the video up on
the channel if you want to see it it's
located in Dalian County and they've
told us in the past that this Factory is
typically reserved for high-end products
right now it's used to make anything
they can the company makes its higher
order volume parts in China typically
and it's been impacted there similarly
to a mossad EVGA meanwhile doesn't own a
factory and instead relies on suppliers
who are now located at least partially
if not primarily and I want some of
these companies like EVGA and gigabyte
started to shift their manufacturing to
Taiwan once the tariffs were becoming a
concern last year the companies that
were angling themselves to thwart the
tariffs by relocating factories to
Taiwan
sometimes Thailand sometimes Vietnam
those companies are going to be less
affected well at least the ones in
Taiwan anyway less affected by this
pandemic because they were trying to
combat something else so Eva J in that
instance would be a bit better position
than some of its competitors for
gigabyte the company's Taiwan factory
makes 200,000 video cards and 200,000
motherboards per month on average as of
2019 the factory also makes 50,000 units
of PCBs that it sells to other parties
or uses in its other product categories
that's 450,000 units per month produced
of products and have some tea lines
which is a lot for a more real estate
constrained Factory in Taiwan especially
considering the higher labor cost that
factory had a period of halted or
reduced work as a result of the human
malware outbreak and trying to contain
it this contributed to a reduction in
products to the channel of at least a
couple hundred thousand units
compounding when considering Lunar New
Year also around the same time gigabyte
has also disallowed any visitors to its
factory
although we were able to get access to
the company's headquarters in Taipei for
overclocking and interview content the
ban on visitors to the factory extends
beyond third party companies like ours
and to internal employees who've
traveled recently like those who might
be flying in from the US to visit the
Taiwan factories this will slow down
production
significantly this information was
before Taiwan closed its borders mind
you so now some of that is moot since
there's a greater override in place at a
government level but we're talking about
the last month or two rather than now
and separately this is broken out from
that meme going around of how many we
can now find out how many medians could
have been emails instead because we're
talking about product managers product
developers designers people who need to
see physically the product or
potentially the production line in order
to call shots on how it's made so you
could have a quality hit there if they
can't make it out there or you could
have a delay to the product coming to
market if someone absolutely needs to
see it in person at least someone who is
from the US office instead as for HQ
gigabyte has restrictions in place that
require masks constant washing of hands
and forbids anything like a handshake
none of that's particularly relevant to
production but the restriction to
outside visitors is we were only able to
visit because we'd been in the country
for two weeks already which has passed
the recommended quarantine period and
because we were relegated just to the
conference room off of the main entrance
to the building we weren't allowed to go
into any of the labs this time from
product managers or other internal
workers this could end up canceling
trips entirely since they'd just be
sitting in a hotel room for two weeks
and that'll slow down production since
those people are needed for oversight
and final approval of products and it's
also kind of a waste of their time if
they could instead be in the u.s. doing
a lot of their work there instead of a
hotel room which cost money over time we
can't say which of the two CPU companies
is affected for this particular item but
this example is a CPU press event the
motherboard company is on the ground
informed us off record that one of the
companies was planning an event for
March relating to a training day for
system integrators and a demonstration
day for media members some of the
professional overclockers who work at
motherboard companies were traveled to
scheduled to travel to California for
this event but had to cancel as a result
of human malware concerns the cpu event
seems to have been silently cancelled as
well it technically wasn't officially
announced yet so that's okay and this
could have implications for review and
timings for launches of new CPUs because
motherboard manufacturers are running
behind on production anyway this ends up
working out for them in this particular
instance and it's probably all
together to begin with we reckon with
coolermaster and Lian Li over the past
few weeks for factory tours we learned
that both companies have important
product launches planned for right
around copy tax which would be the last
week of May and the first week of June
we actually recommended that the
companies consider LT acts as an
alternative launch venue since Computex
will likely be cancelled and that's
another topic entirely but that will
depend on if things are under control
before August in the very least some of
these products pending the likely
postponement of Computex by tight rrah
will be delayed to third quarter some of
the case manufacturers are also now
working from home - as our Intel Dell
and AMD except for crucial meetings or
people who need to be on site like
warehouse workers this will cause
efficiency and product quality issues in
production as well after what seems like
already countless delays we've got three
other concrete examples for you
AMD's B 550 is now anticipated for
launch after what would be Computex if
it happened at present the B 550 chipset
which is explicitly different from B 550
a mind you is due for an end of June or
early July but that's still uncertain Z
for an idea was rumored online for
launch before combi tax but we've been
told that the impacts to the factories
at a motherboard level and the very
least could cause delays beyond the
initial launch period for board
availability in the least and it'd be
likely that Intel would probably align
its launch when with with--when
motherboards would be available
otherwise kind of be shooting itself in
the foot we've also heard from partners
in the industry that entails
much-anticipated ghost cannon nook will
be delayed at least a few weeks if not
longer this is also due to the
production capacity limitations
resulting from Corona well shorten it I
guess
Kurt's cos øx got away with it so maybe
we will hand and you have to remember
there's a lot of partners tied into that
ecosystem the ghost Canyon nook
ecosystem because Intel although they
sort of speck it out they design it they
do the silicon they are not making at
least entirely on their own the board
the risers the case the power supply all
that stuff comes from other people which
is normal there's nothing wrong with
that that's normal for a product but the
point is that each of these
manufacturers suppliers has delays on
its own pipeline and that's going to
cause the final product to be delayed
because they can
the parts for it here's another one this
one's pretty big for a concrete example
for you production delays copy tax is
likely another victim of human malware
side-channel execution attacks the event
is the industry's largest and most
influential each year it can dictate
whether products succeed or fail when
they launch and it sort of lines up the
rest of the or at least the following
quarter it's around the same time every
year end of May early June and at this
point probably gonna be canceled or
postponed rather but they haven't
officially said anything so although
some people like to brag about how they
don't watch show coverage the reality of
it is that most people do that's fine if
you don't like it but most people do
watch it and it does drive the industry
for the rest of the year so as an
example just looking at us alone not
even talking out the people who make the
products but just the people who talk
about the people who make the products
we can typically triple or quadruple our
viewership in a week from coffee tax or
from CES same thing roughly and that's
important for us because it gives us a
revenue boom that we need to sort of
fund bigger projects throughout the year
and that's true for most the other media
people too and they often last by the
way for more than a week because the way
the YouTube algorithms built you have
high viewership for a while it's like
wow you're doing the million views for
per 48 hours rather than your usual
whatever it is so your channels to
dhamaal so it it boosts you for some
period of time that's not quite known
but it seems to have knock-on effects
right least a month so that's going to
be a big deal if it's cancelled for the
media and it'll be a big deal for the
hardware companies too even if you don't
watch Computex coverage without a major
venue to announce products it's likely
that the products will instead be pushed
back to later launches in the year later
events in the year which will create an
economic slowdown and ripple effects to
the financials for every company
involved in the computer hardware
industry especially including youtubers
and when we reached out for comment
Taiwan's Tourism Council which runs
Computex by the way tight rene i tra
simply told us that it would update us
on the status later and had no comment
at this time
we spoke with our hosts during the tours
and learned that tight rrah is currently
asking manufacturers for
opinions on if the show should be
postponed or canceled or held and
because so many travelers for coffee tax
come from China especially the companies
that are headquartered in Taiwan they
have factories in China as almost
everyone does it looks like due to the
travel restrictions most companies are
recommending postponement of the show
currently further from a PR standpoint
it would look at this point anyway
irresponsible to rally hundreds of
thousands of people together including
high-profile reviewers with influence to
potentially cause an outbreak because
this there's no wedding that PR battle
and we suspect the event will be
postponed it also becomes difficult to
market your event to exhibitors in the
future because you're saying something
like I'm pulling these numbers out of
the air but you know hundred thousand
year or visitors 150,000 200,000 you
always want to show growth and then whoa
suddenly it's down to a hundred thousand
because everyone didn't want to they
were scared they didn't want to go or
they couldn't go or their travel
restrictions and that just looks bad
because what are you supposed to do next
year say oh I just ignore that data it's
bad that was because of the thing going
on so the current rumor is that it will
be pushed into August or September
we heard September more than August
although tighter would not confirm when
asked it's effectively an entire quarter
of slowdown though for the industry last
point we've had a lot of people in the
comments asked us if we still hold our
position on not panic buying hardware
right now our position originally was
that no you absolutely should not be
buying computer hardware right now just
because you want to make sure you get it
before someone else does that would put
you in the same category of people who
are panic buying toilet paper except you
can't wipe your ass with it well I mean
no I don't think well maybe a GT 1030
but generally you can't actually I
wonder if you could repurpose water
coolant pumps as a bidet and I've spent
too much time in Taiwan anyway that puts
you in the same group of people except
it's a commodity it's not even something
that you need to use is the point
generally speaking computer hardware
despite potentially looking at a
shortage actually almost certainly
looking at a shortage in the near term
for sure it's just it's not some
than you need to survive and ultimately
our concern in that video was that panic
drummed up by internet comments online
would cause people to spend money on a
gaming PC when they should be worried
about something that's probably more
important if you were a couple weeks ago
of the opinion that the economy was
going to crash and therefore you have to
purchase a gaming PC now before all the
parts disappear our counter to that was
well ok but like what if you lose your
job because that's really the the real
consideration it was that anyone who was
concerned about the impact of the world
of gaming computers should have looked a
bit past that and thought what's the
impact to my life externally from gaming
computers and will that have a knock-on
effect so we still stick by that and I
personally feel pretty good about
advising against panic buying just
because you want to make sure you get
something before all the parts disappear
because now people have been in the two
weeks since we posted that video anyway
countries globally have experienced
temporary business closures service
industries were hit especially hard even
in the US where we often benefit from
being a bit more spaced out
geographically we're still seeing
restaurants closed and service centres
close as non-essential businesses
stripped down their hours and even
essential ones do so of course you'll be
fine if you work at Gamestop according
to the latest news out of them but
anyone else might have a bit more to be
concerned about the computer hardware
all this said will reiterate what we
said in our first video on the subject
which is that a lot of people are going
to need their money that be spent panic
buying PC parts a few months early for
other things like food and rent
especially in those sectors where
they're the hardest hit by shutdowns so
a lot of people lost hours and wages
overnight we'd say that yes we made the
right call if you are in an industry
that's not impacted maybe you're
self-employed and you're not impacted
which would mean that you're not a
youtuber or you are per hat
maybe you are but in a different
category or maybe you are just wealthy
there's nothing wrong with any of those
things it just means that you should
still follow the basic advice anyway of
only buying when you actually need
system not just because you want to make
sure you get it before someone else does
okay so back to reality then now that
we've gone through the facts the data
we've gathered on the ground in Taiwan
which is about as close as you can get
to the source of this stuff it's time to
bring everyone back to reality if it's
not all doom and gloom so a first
reminder in Taiwan most the companies
are headquartered there including
companies that you often perceive as
being headquartered in the u.s. EVGA is
one of them and the people who work in
the Taiwan age queues are going to be
the closest to actual information
especially for things like copy tax
because I mean that's that's tighter
that's basically the Taiwanese
government putting on that show or at
least the Tourism Council so the
information can't get much cleaner than
the people who work in Taiwan at the
headquarters where the companies are
actually making their decisions gigabyte
has a u.s. headquarters and it has
important people there but all of the
decisions come down through HQ real HQ
in Taiwan and that's gonna be true for
mostly companies EVGA as well so that's
a good place to get clean information
most of these issues though they're
related to product delays or slightly
inconvenient processes like the
requirement to wear masks as a visitor
to the country when you're visiting
factories or the requirement be
thermographic ly checked at the entrance
to buildings basically every VIP
building we went into it was either a
thermal camera or just a laser
thermometer they pointed at your head
when you walk in kind of debate the
accuracy of that but that's another
story especially given that there's no
training for the people often using that
but whatever anyway it's like I
challenge your testing methodology for
my thermals the you know who I am I
invented out-of-the-box thermals but
actually that was a viewer but yeah so a
lot of the stuffs inconvenient or kind
of annoying but there are product delays
there's going to be an economic hit to
the industry I'm not an economist I
don't know how bad it'll be I don't
foresee it being doom and gloom
everything's over it's all like it's the
end I'm not really in that camp so when
I see currently switching over to I
guess informed opinion from some of the
so that we shared I see the industry
being on track to lose one to two
quarters of progress and that's why I'm
reaching economic impact to the industry
we're gonna see a slowdown I'm sure the
other youtubers could see a slowdown or
at least less viewership than they might
have otherwise and we've already seen it
in an indirect way because we've noticed
viewers are not able to get to the
content that isn't related to the virus
which is in part a YouTube thing it's in
part timing I guess but you're looking
at a challenge where there's probably
more content right now being pushed to
YouTube then typically would be the case
and a lot of its around one topic and
the way the algorithm works is it sucks
you into a topic and then it it doesn't
spit you back out again until you stop
watching that content so people are
probably stuck in this vacuum of virus
content and this is our way of getting
them back is basically what I'm saying
but hopefully it provides some actual
value for you and I apologize if you
didn't want to hear more virus
discussion from our channel because I
didn't really and I get it I don't
really want to do it I'd rather do
computer stuff but at least this has
computer news in it so anyway it looks
like we're on track to lose a couple
quarters of progress here as an industry
computer launches hardware launches
stuff like that
most the news organizations right now
are talking nonstop about human malware
because if it bleeds it leads and they
are more doom and gloom oriented so just
to remind it from us it's not the end of
the world there will be a delay we would
advise still that you don't just buy a
computer hardware because you want to
make sure you get it before it's out of
stock because there's gonna be more
especially because there's new silicon
launching this year anyway whether or
not it's delayed so unless you need
something now you shouldn't really be
buying but that's pretty much always
true alright so we've tried to stick to
the facts and the numbers for this to
avoid encouraging any sort of panic and
like before advisors taking a rational
approach focus on things outside of
buying a computer it's just not that
important you can always get it later in
the year the biggest problem here
ultimately is supply chains and the
lower down supply chain availability and
factory uptime and that is improving
right now we know that a lot of the
factories have gotten their workforce
backup from as low as 10% and from
furloughing if that's an appropriate use
from putting their employees on furlough
for two days a week they've kind of
covered from that now it's a matter of
getting supply and that's gonna take
some weeks as well but things are
recovering at least in the production
side of the industry now it's gonna be a
matter of getting the schedule back on
track and that's gonna be it for this
one thanks for watching check out the
main channel go watch our factory tour
series because a lot of people were
excited about it and then I think it
wasn't really getting cycled as a quick
side note we're going to have a video on
our secondary channel G on Steve where
I'm just riding around on an e-bike
talking about the situation currently as
it impacts YouTube in our content
production so we'll link that below if
you want to check that one out and I go
to store my cameras axis net or
patreon.com slash cameras Nexus tops I
directly thanks for watching we'll see
you all next time
[Music]
hey guys build Zoid here and so z 490
motherboard pre-orders are up on new egg
and so i want to share some of my
thoughts on first the z4 9e uh well no
not first the motsi for an item other
words but on the z4 90 motherboards as
well as the as well as pre-ordering
motherboards as well as just like right
like the Z or Z 3 Z 4 90 prices compared
to z 3 90 prices and yeah actually well
yeah so anyway let's let's get into it
so first up pre-ordering motherboards I
think pre-ordering a z4 90 motherboard
is dumb because I think there's a very
real chance that you're gonna end up
with a motherboard and no CPU and the
reasoning for this is is that like
unlike say a 10 900k a z3 z4 90 or ass
master motherboard is not dependent on
Intel's very limited 40 nanometer
production capabilities as you may have
noticed buying a 10 9 8 exe like retail
package 10 9 8 Exe CPU is basically
impossible because intel has a very real
problem of they were expecting to be
producing a bunch of stuff on 10
nanometer like several years ago and so
they don't currently have the fab
capacity to keep up with the demand for
Zeon's and laptop CPUs and Mainstreet
like all of the different CPUs they make
they are not capable of keeping up with
the demand for them right now so you
know I'd be like I would not be
surprised if on z4 if on launch day like
10 nine hundred KS and maybe even 10
seven hundred KS end up being actually
kinda difficult to find and buy whereas
the motherboards well their motherboards
they're not dependent on Intel's ability
to make 40 nanometer CPUs so with the
motherboards I'd be very very surprised
if they ran into the same problem so
pre-ordering a motherboard like you're
just you're very like I'm pre-ordering a
motherboard so that you can have your
motherboard on launch day and no CPU
just seems kind of stupid right like
similarly having a CPU had no
motherboard kind of sucks but I think if
you have a CPU there's a better chance
of finding a motherboard for it then
there is finding a CPU for a motherboard
okay like if you have the motherboard
you're gonna have a hell of a time
finding the CPU in my thing
so I wouldn't pre-order the motherboards
because I don't think there's gonna be
like I'd be extremely surprised if there
was a z4 90 motherboard shortage right
so yeah especially because like the z4
90 like there are like the 10 600 K
actually kind of looks like a pretty
interesting CPU depending on like how
it's priced but uh mostly because like
8700 KS are great and a 10 600 K is just
another 8 like it's another 80 600 K I'm
8700 K so it's just like that's a great
CPU so if you know we can get it cheap
that would be incredible thank you you
know that would be great and then you
can go and buy yourself a nice well I
would strongly recommend around $200
boards because these actually look
really solid but there are some options
down here where it's like there there's
probably some solid options even below
that but for those I would definitely
recommend waiting for reviews so that's
the other thing with pre-ordering
motherboards is like you don't actually
like so far we've had a lot of
motherboard overview videos and I've
done a PCB breakdown of the Z 490
godlike but I've also mentioned that you
shouldn't buy a Z 490 godlike in that
same video as much as I think it's an
amazing board it's also $750 you don't
need a $750 motherboard right well it
depends on what you're doing if you're
like if you're an extreme overclockers
and you're in search of like world
records then I may be the Z 490 godlike
might actually be what you need I would
maybe also consider the apex of being
what you need but yeah you know like
that that's the thing is like so there's
been motherboard overviews I've done a
PCB breakdown I'm gonna be doing more
PCB breakdowns but there's no reviews
and I know that might be very surprising
to people considering I do PCB
breakdowns but I do not consider PCB
breakdowns reviews okay III know for
some reason like I do notice a lot of
comments that are like oh like that
evidently think PCB breakdowns are
motherboard reviews but they're not
they're not supposed to be reviews it's
never like I don't know if like I don't
feel like it's implied that they're
reviews then again I'm really bad at
reading between the lines probably
because if like I'm a very literal
person
which is why I like trying like people
trying to be sarcastic with me just end
up me having like basically lowering my
opinion of them because you know they'll
be sarcastic about something and I'll
legitimately think that they're being
stupid so you know it's just like like
and the PCP breakdowns are not reviews
and if you don't like I I don't know how
like they're not reviews and there's no
motherboard reviews for Z 490 out right
now and there's a lot of really cool
stuff that the Z 490 motherboards are
doing in terms of like hardware but the
reason why you need actual motherboard
reviews with actual motherboards with
real CPUs in the motherboards and then
memory kit especially if you're gonna be
doing like memory overclocking
capability testing you need to run
memory kits in the motherboards you
can't like look at the motherboard and
go like oh it's a daisy-chain it's gonna
suck with a 4 by 8 configuration because
well let's say for Z 390 if you had a T
topology board at best you'd probably be
doing like 4400 some of the top-end Z
490 boards are claiming that they're
daisy chains can do 40 400 megahertz
okay like you need to test this stuff
and the thing is is like a motherboard
that like a physically great motherboard
with a terrible BIOS is ultimately still
a terrible motherboard and similarly a
great BIOS on a physically terrible
motherboard is still a terrible
motherboard right so it's like there's
like and right now all of the videos
about motherboards that you've seen
online are literally just physical
overviews to a lower or greater depth
right I'd consider mine very in-depth in
the overclocking department and not so
much in the feature set Department
because you could just go like if you
want to know what like USB ports and LAN
chips and whatever a motherboard has you
can go to the motherboard manufacturers
website you can download the freaking
manual and it'll tell you everything you
need to know well there are actually
some manufacturers who have terrible
motherboard manuals but you know in my
opinion that's just a good reason not to
buy them until they fix their bloody
manuals because that's unacceptable it's
like if you're gonna have a motherboard
manual
should not suck make a better one
you know like reviewers shouldn't be
providing basic information for your
product like that should be the product
should come with that included you
should that's that's what your frickin
motherboard website pages are for right
so anyway uh yeah so there's no reviews
of the motherboards don't preorder them
and the other thing I want to talk about
is motherboards with full cover water
blocks and this is not really related to
Z 490 but I just in general think that
motherboards with full cover water
blocks are stupid because for the price
difference between say the Auris extreme
and the extreme water force you could
literally buy a water you could
literally build a water cooling loop
that's $500 right there you can build a
water loop like you can build a loop for
that and you know what's even better
well what I like even by far the most
what I dislike about the full cover
water blocks is that how do you know
that that full cover block is better
than like a ek or an optimist or a rock
WA computer or water cool CPU block
right you're spending five hundred
dollars on a full cover block that block
better be the best damn CPU cooling
system ever and I have a very hard time
believing that's actually the case and
the reason I have a very hard time
believing that it's actually the case is
because motherboard vendors get full
cover water blocks on their motherboards
so that they can whack more RGB onto
them it's not because they actually care
about having it like like this like I
don't think those are gonna be
top-of-the-line water blocks and the
worst part is is I think like and like I
don't think they're ever like nobody's
ever gonna review these water blocks
with the like correct appropriate level
of test methodology to come to a
conclusion if these are actually better
than what you could get from like ek or
Optimus for you know like ek I think has
a block that's like $300 aqua computer
had a block that was like $300 that was
solid silver if I'm not mistaken but uh
because silver is more thermally
conductive than copper it's also more
electrically conductive than copper just
fun fact gold on the other hand is
inferior to copper in every
except like corrosion resistance right
gold doesn't corrode basically like at
all as far as I know and actually yeah
as far as I know is a good enough
defense in my opinion so anyway so full
cover water blocks are dumb because
they're very they're overpriced you're
not guaranteed to actually have the best
CPU cooling performance out of them
because there's no actual reviews of
those damn things anyway
like anywhere that you know like you
basically need a water cooling reviewer
where who are very rare right there's
very few of those to take one of those
boards and then compare it against a you
know brought like CPU only blocks and
I've never seen that actually done so
probably also because I ignore
motherboards that are over $1000 but
like yeah full cover water blocks are
stupid on motherboards the others and
somebody might be like oh but the water
block also cools the vrm these
motherboards don't need vrm cooling like
honestly something like the z4 90 horas
extreme or the z4 90 godlike or or this
right here like actually from like the
master up vrm heat sinks are pretty much
optional like you don't need them at all
even if you're hammering a ten nine
hundred K okay like the water cooling on
the vrm is bloody pointless it's
literally just it just raises the cost
of the board so don't buy those and on
that note also what VR and water cooling
is a stupid gimmick on the same level as
the full cover blocks don't buy that
either right like just buy a hero
instead it's the same board about a
hundred dollars cheaper and it doesn't
have a stupid gimmick over the vrm if
anything adding that vrm block into your
loop is lowering your flow rate not by
much probably because it's a vrm block
those things are basically a tube with
nothing in it because it's a VR like the
arms don't produce enough heat to
justify water cooling so moat like a lot
of the the VR and water cooling blocks
are literally just a tube with no
surface area because that's all you
really need like just just water flowing
through a tube already itself like
provides a decent amount of cooling
capacity because water has so much more
heat
and air does but uh yeah like so so it
might not really change the flow
restriction of your loop that much but
it also doesn't like it's not necessary
in the first place and it adds a hundred
dollars to the cost of the board so it's
dumb you don't need it anyway so the
other thing I wanted to address other
than the gimmick gimmick blocks on
motherboards is the price tags of Z 490
so Z 490 you may have noticed that
across the board like it looks like the
motherboards across the board have
gotten more expensive and like if you go
by the names that's that's true like the
Z 490 Waris extreme is a hell of a lot
more expensive than the Z 390 or s
extreme and the same goes for the ASUS
Maximus 12 formula compared to the 11
for I mean 12 extreme versus the 11
extreme and the godlike as well like
this one actually has the smallest price
I could probably because the Z 390
version was so damn overpriced in my
entire board or maybe even 650 like
anyway like so these top end boards are
extremely expensive there's a few
reasons for that and you know and if we
go down the stack like the master Z 490
master costs more than the Z 390 master
the Z 490 ultra costs more than the Z
390 ultra I don't remember what the
price of this actually yeah this is more
expensive than the old ITX board this is
more expensive than the pre like the the
Z 390 version this is more expensive
than the Z 390 version right like just
across the board it looks like though
it's worth noting this is a Z 390 ultra
not a Z 390 pro white like the previous
one was Pro branding this one's ultra
branding so gigabyte actually that's
sort of used for distinguishing the
price points but ultimately I wouldn't
pay too much attention to the names
because the thing is with Z 490 the
motherboards are built to just
ridiculous build quality like yeah build
quality standards and in some areas you
know two completely unnecessary
standards like for example the extreme
all of the stuff you would think is
plastic on this motherboard like it has
been for like several years now like if
you had a motherboard with
like a cover on the front like this most
of that would be like the the like this
this like the side area here right like
like this part over the 24 pin connector
and and that you'd you'd assume that
like that would be plastic because it
doesn't need to be made out of metal
because there's nothing bloody there
that would need not to be made out of
metal well on the EZ 490 came now it's
actually made out of aluminum I've still
haven't figured out why it's made out of
aluminum it doesn't serve any functional
purpose but it does make the motherboard
more expensive to produce I'm honestly
quite disappointed like I know like a
lot of reviewers will probably pick up
the board go like oh my god this is so
heavy and feels so high quality but to
me this is like oh they're they're
raising the manufacturing cost for no
good reason because like the i/o cover
is made of metal like why like the only
time you touch the bloody i/o cover is
when you're first putting the
motherboard in a system and personally
when I run test bench ports like my x5
70 extreme no longer has an i/o cover
like I just took that took it off and
I'm never putting it back on again
because it's it doesn't do anything it's
just kind of there if anything it makes
your vrm thermals worse by restricting
the airflow through the area but you
know speaking of erm thermals like the
heatsink on this motherboard for the vrm
is insane and gigabytes gone with like
even higher-end vrm thermal pads than
before and that's also pointless because
that's a 16 phase using 90 i'm smart
power stages like you're you're gonna be
able to run this board naked and it's
still not gonna overheat so yeah but
ultimately you know design decisions
like that lead to price tags like this
where we now have boards where they're
like you know a lot of it is just stupid
fluff that adds manufacturing cost
doesn't actually do anything but it's
there and yeah I'm not a fan of this
like like like I'm not a fan of this
trend where motherboard prices basically
are now like the more
till we can RAM onto our board for no
good reason the more we can charge for
our board it's like I I want a good PCB
and then I want heat sinks on the things
that need heat sinks and then I don't
want anything else thank you very much
okay like and then make it as cheap as
possible okay like that's what I want
from a board I don't need like well to
be fair I do appreciate things like say
the metal back plates that say gigabyte
does on their boards and I think Asus
does it like that we've started seeing
on motherboards these days
I like those because they add a lot of
rigidity to the motherboard and it makes
it much harder to like you can't like
you're not gonna it's much less likely
that you're gonna scratch your
motherboard with stand offs or that
you're gonna you know like if you're
installing a really heavy heatsink that
you're gonna bend the board a lot like
it makes the motherboard more rigid and
it actually makes it more robust but the
and to be fair the aluminum on the front
of the extreme also adds to that like
that board does not have any flex at
this point but it's like most of that's
from the backplate and like you most of
that you could achieve with the
backplate and the extra stuff on the
front is just not very necessary but
it's there so you pay for it and yeah so
I'm not a fan of that but if you're
wondering why the prices are going up
it's because the metal content of your
motherboard is going up you get more
aluminum than ever before it doesn't
actually do anything but it's there and
you have to pay for it so yeah now at
the lower lower tiers like say the ace
ace 12 hero you know or master here from
gigabyte so these are now $400 boards on
the z3 90 these would be around $300 and
the thing with these is like I don't
know well Asus I know like basically all
of these are built to much higher
quality standards than their
predecessors and especially with
gigabyte like the Z because I know the
gigabyte lineup better and well to be
fair thee I don't remember what the VR
I'm on dozy 390 ace was I think it was
actually using discrete MOSFETs in which
case this is actually a bigger quality
like this is a bitter bigger build
quality upgrade on the ACE from going
from z3 90 to z4 90 than it is on the on
the master but
like the thing is like the Z 390 master
was you know using 40 amp power stages
it was a 12 phase of erm this is on 90s
like the boards and it adds a bunch of
stuff to the board that you didn't have
on the Z 390 master so it's just like
and and that's also like you need to
consider that a lot of the high-end Z
490 boards are built with PCIe 4.0 specs
in mind which doesn't mean they support
PCIe 4.0 because well the board supports
PCI you 4.0 your CPU doesn't ok the 10th
Newton CPUs or pcie 3.0 only so you know
but the fact that the boards are built
to a PCI you 4.0 it's like you need a
PCIe 4.0 PCB you need PCI you 4.0 driver
the switches and Driver redriver x' and
that just adds a little bit of cost you
know not a ton but it adds up because
other than that we've got you know
better power stage is more expensive
voltage controllers you've got your
Wi-Fi 6 add-in cards on all of these
instead of whatever it was on z3 net was
e 390 I think was Wi-Fi 5 you've got you
know like they've basically like
everything that could cost a little more
now cost a little bit more so that's why
the whole board like the entire price
the price points of all of these boards
have shifted up and the thing is like
the z3 90 horas master has far more in
common with the z3 90 horas extreme in
terms of build quality than it does with
the z3 90 master so I consider this
price tag very much justified because
also I wouldn't let necessarily like
this is a this is a motherboard that
like it's really not far off the extreme
in terms of capabilities like the
extreme does some extra special stuff
with the memory and well like you need
to test that like there's just no way to
say that that actually does anything
until you get the board and bloody test
it but uh well I have the board I just
don't have a cpu for it so you know
that's same problem though it's just
like a need to test those kinds of
things but in terms of just like
hardware present on the motherboard like
this is a huge step up from it z3 90
counterpart and the same goes for like
the z4 90 or ultra in fact the Auris
ultra now is you know Giga
is replacing the master with it and I
agree with that decision that makes
sense to me considering what they've
done with this board compared to the z3
90 ultra and you know an Asus with the
like the 12 hero makes the 11 hero look
like a joke especially because the 11
hero wasn't really that great as he 390
motherboard in the first place like this
absolutely obliterates that one and then
Z 490 ace like with MSI it's sort of the
same story as far as I'm concerned and
then you have the Z 490 Taichi which I
don't have a frame of reference for that
so I have no idea so yeah then this I
don't remember where that was placed on
Z 390 that would be the Z 390 desi
Canary but like the thing is this has
like Thunderbolt that's like the main
selling point of that board but yeah
like the build quality upgrades is just
a like the the Z 390 Oris the ITX is e
390 from gigabyte was honestly not great
I it was not a great board this thing on
the other hand is a step above even what
they did for X 570 and the X 570 ITX was
already really nice and they've just
kind of go like you know what we can we
can do even nicer kind of probably
because of 10900 cables like 39 50 X is
can pull a lot of power it's just not
advisable whereas ten nine hundred KS
can pull a lot of power and they won't
degrade on you when you do that because
it's intel's 14 nanometer is very robust
so yeah like you know so now we have
like like this is a little beast of an
ITX board and the same is true of the
other ITX boards from the other vendors
right and that's also why they're more
expensive than their Z 390 counterparts
is because like they're just better than
the their predecessors significantly and
it's not like power like high end power
stages haven't gotten any cheaper so
it's just like well now you're you have
a better vrm and that the RM is more
expensive so the whole board is more
expensive so yeah that's kind of that
and what we're seeing like in just
across the board like I'd say that is
true we're like the Auris elite from
gigabyte actually like this I ultimately
so in the I did a video talking about
which is e 490 motherboards I want to
review and in that video I said I'd be
reviewing the c49 the ATX ultra I've
changed my mind I'm actually going to be
reviewing the eight the ATX the elite
they don't have a different form factor
of the elite so yeah I'm gonna be
testing the elite because the elite
actually it shares a lot with the more
expensive boards in terms of sort of
like their there's some there's some
cost optimization going on otherwise it
wouldn't be a $200 board but a you know
$300 board but there's like a lot of the
stuff that I would really like about say
the ultra like most of that's still
present at least somewhat on the elite
and this is a $200 board so this is like
the kind of board that I'd say you know
like I'd be looking at these boards if
you're if you're considering a z4 90
build and you're just like a gamer these
are the boards I'd be looking at I
wouldn't be looking at a freaking master
like the Masters for people who really
like overclocking a lot and for some
reason don't want to buy an apex you
know like like that that's the thing
like I guess I have a kind of skewed
well like you know there's obviously
feature differences between the boards
it's just like I don't pay attention to
things like em belt to slots ADA USB
Thunderball Wi-Fi like what Wi-Fi is
just like nope don't care if the
motherboard didn't have it was ten
dollars cheaper I would appreciate that
thank you very much so you know there
was obviously feature differences but in
terms of just sheer sort of erm and
memory capabilities there are very small
differences going from like 200 well ok
v are my is the master is kind of a big
difference but it's it's like you go
from a you know the RM that's plenty
capable to AV RM that's just insane
overkill it's like you don't need that I
mean yes it's a massive upgrade but you
don't need that so don't pay for it
because you're never gonna like you know
like basically with the master it's like
this is a great board it's not necessary
board alright and so really you know in
terms of motherboards I would actually
be considering buying if I was doing a
gaming build would be like the elite
from gigabyte maybe the tough from Asus
right but again I'd wait for reviews
down here so yeah and to and to make you
all very sad I don't have any plans on
reviewing anything other than an apex
from Asus because the apex is cool and
everything else is just like the apex is
a proper Oh like this is meant for
overclockers so I'm really excited for
that and then all of the other boards
are like a it's like because if I test
the elite and I like the elite then I'll
just recommend the elite or if I'll
probably be testing a tomahawk from MSI
as well and and if that's good then I
can if the elite or the tomahawk are
good enough then I'll just recommend one
of those and I can ignore the rest it's
just like I don't really think there's
gonna be that much of a difference
between say these four boards down here
this this really is like the the
sweetspot lineup though I think as rocks
erm is the weakest out of all of them
anyway so yeah z4 90 basically don't
pre-order because there's no reviews
secondly you don't need the really
expensive motherboards a lot of these
are like they're like they're expensive
because they're built to like much
higher quality standards than their
predecessors so it's not like I don't
see it as the motherboards motherboard
vendors just randomly jacking up prices
they're kind of justified in my opinion
with the pricing that you know some of
these boards come in come in at like
something like it's junk like the
aluminum covers are dumb but $800 boards
so I guess you know what sure aluminium
covers but uh yeah so that's that's kind
of my thoughts on the z4 90 boards right
now I still don't get why we have so
many boards like I'll need to like the
this is the annoying thing with the
various motherboards is like they really
slice them up like especially Asus is
great about this where it's like oh you
get Wi-Fi but you don't get this other
feature and then it's like no well now
you get that other feature but you don't
get Wi-Fi if you want both of the
features at the same time
to pay another $10 or something like
that it's like like I get why they do it
but for me it's annoying because it's
just like now like you need to just kind
of remember what the feature differences
are between them boards or just like you
did like it takes time to write up a
script where it's like oh this board has
dual BIOS but it doesn't have the Wi-Fi
and this one doesn't have the dual BIOS
but does have the Wi-Fi and it's just
like you just have less boards just have
less boards and then you don't have to
feature pinch them so much so yeah
anyway I still don't like this video
very much but uh I did want to get this
out there because you know the
pre-orders are up and I'm seeing people
going like oh my god the prices are so
high the boards are so much better than
what you got before like if you buy a
two hundred dollar z4 90 motherboard
you're getting a two hundred dollar z3
90 board sure the name isn't as high-end
as it used to be like the elite was I
think a hundred seventy-four z3 90 but
the z4 90 elites is a lot better than
the z3 Hynde elite you know and the the
same is well actually gigabyte probably
has the smallest upgrade in terms of
their boards because they're like their
z3 90 elite was already like a 12 phase
with I think 50 amp dr Maus parts but
you know yeah like I think that was
already the old elite but with the Z 490
elite like they're still like the thing
is everybody else has made major
differences like $200 like I tested the
Z 490 - z 390 - a from Asus the vrm on
that is garbage thermally like it runs
way too damn hot and it's just like well
now around the same sort of price range
you have the tough I'll be very sad
why more VRM like this actually it
doesn't even look like it is way more
vrm so yeah you know like there's an MSI
also just like huge huge upgrade to the
power delivery with going from z3
to Z 490 so it's like I would not
consider this a price hike I would
consider this a naming readjustment okay
like the naming scheme has basically
shifted around but the build quality has
in a lot of cases I was just straight-up
improved without actually having a
change in the price and in some cases
the price has shot up and the build
quality has gone with it essentially is
the best best way to put it so yeah
that's my thoughts on Z 490 this what
kind of like the the the the ridiculous
upgrades to a lot of the motherboards is
the main reason why I'm so excited for Z
for 90s is like we're getting some
really cool boards and the best part for
me is I don't have to pay for a lot of
them but yeah like if you're if you're
just doing a gaming build $200 Z for 90
boards are gonna be very like there's
definitely going to be at least one Z
for 90 motherboard at around $200 that
is gonna be just right or you know just
fine
and so yeah just like don't don't look
at the really expensive ones they're not
for you I'm not really sure for like
they're for people like me except I
don't have enough disposable income to
buy them so yeah well I'd be able to buy
like one of them no you know five of
them so yeah anyway so that's kind of
that thanks for watching like share
subscribe leave any comments questions
suggestions down in the comment section
below if you'd like to support what I do
here with actually hardcore overclocking
I have a patreon down in the description
below so you know you can use that to
support the channel because there are
some other boards that like I have to
buy like like gigabytes sending me
boards MSI sending boards Asus I have no
contact with so I'm probably going to be
buying boards well actually not probably
I'm definitely buying an apex because I
really want to test it the the maximum
is 12 apex like it looks like an
absolute beast I'm super excited for the
board and I really really want to test
one and then the rest of Asus is line up
is like a I might test something well
now just a I don't really want to have a
stack of 20 motherboards to dice that
always it's not fun what else is there
then as walk alike the same thing I
actually have to buy as rock boards so
yeah that's it and you know so the
patreon helps out with that then also I
have a teespring store where you can buy
shirts stickers posters you know the
usual youtuber merch and that achieves
the exact same thing as the patreon
except instead of getting basically
nothing in return you get well you you
can feel very patronizing towards me
because you know you're a patron okay
whatever but yeah like with teespring
you get a shirt sticker you know get
merch and return so yeah that's it for
this video thanks for watching and good
bye
so we've got new motherboards updated
features a new chipset more pins in the
socket and of course new CPUs meet the
Intel I nine ten nine hundred kV
self-proclaimed fastest gaming CPU in
the world assuming that's true let's
build the world's fastest gaming
computer for 2020 gamer content creator
movie lover you can be all three with
Ben Q's new aw 32 a tu monitor with the
slick construction and minimal bezels
it'll look great on any desk in any
situation the 4k IPS panel shines for
color accurate work but when you want to
kick back and watch a movie Ben cues
HDRI technology takes your media to the
next level or fire up some super fast
gameplay and enjoy a tear-free
experience with AMD freesync don't make
compromises when it comes to your
display choice get everything you need
in one awesome package for more
information head to BenQ comm or check
the link below thanks for tuning in to
the channel today guys and I hope you
enjoy this build if you like what you
see here please be sure to hit that
little subscribe button down there and
the notification bell so that you don't
miss out on any of the builds that we do
here on the channel every week I try to
mix it up with different Hardware
different cases different form factors
and different price or performance
targets let me know down below in the
comments what you guys want to see and
I'll try to make it happen on the
channel moving forward so by now you've
probably all heard about this chip
this is Intel's new mainstream flagship
processor the AI 910 900 K and while
there are some things about it that are
easy to hate on Intel I think is moving
in the right direction with a lot of the
choices that they've made here first off
for the first time in a few generations
the price of the new processors will be
about the same as the outgoing ones
meaning that on release you should see
the 10900 K selling for somewhere in the
neighborhood of about $500 the same as
the 9900 kidding they've bumped up the
core and thread count to 10 and 20
respectively and
clocks are also on the rise with single
quarter bow hitting 5.3 gigahertz under
the right conditions this is due to
intel's thermal velocity boost which
plays similar to AMD's precision boost
and takes into account things like
thermals and power since the 10 900k is
still on the 14 nanometer manufacturing
process this means that we now have 10
cores in the same package size as we had
4 cores on just a few years ago in order
to try to alleviate some of the thermal
constraints and allow for those higher
boost frequencies intel has shaved down
the die height and slightly thickened
the IHS allowing for better heat
dissipation regardless though we have to
just about be at the limits of how many
14 nanometer cores can fit onto this
size package without overloading
standard cooling solutions and I'm
anxious to see what 10 nanometers will
bring in all fairness what intel has
managed to do with 14 + + + + +
nanometers is pretty amazing and it does
demonstrate what's possible with amateur
platform as the 9900 K was the previous
king of gaming CPUs and the 10 900 K is
faster has more cores and has better
memory support all the ingredients are
there to make this the new processor to
have if you simply want the best of the
best for gaming unfortunately while
today we'll be building one of the very
first systems to use this chip I can't
yet test it for you
look for performance data at a later
time when I will definitely bring back
this build in a full gaming desk set up
and test everything out in addition to
more cores and higher boost we also have
added features baked directly into the
architecture like Wi-Fi 6 faster
official memory support and 2.5 k glam
we see all of this brought to life on
the new asus rog Strix z 490 gaming
motherboard and let's start with the i/o
for that reason the fixed shield is
always a welcome sight as is the massive
USB connectivity there are 10 total USB
ports here along with hdmi displayport
wide
by 6:00 and 10:00 a a BIOS flash back
button and the land port Strix branding
is pretty apparent and we can only
speculate as to what some of the
lettering over the chips that actually
says but it does look pretty cool
nonetheless you also get a 14 + 2 phase
power design and improved heat sinks
over the VRMs connected by a copper heat
pipe overall a really nice set of
features and aesthetic touches no I
don't usually deep dive like this into
CPUs and motherboards for these builds
but as both of these are brand new I
figured that I'd give you some info on
what will be building with here today of
course we will need some other
components to complete our system so
let's talk about those two the fastest
gaming PC wouldn't be complete without
of course the fastest gaming GPU on the
market and I guess Titans withstanding
and not really meant for gaming anyway
the 2080 Ti is still the top of the pile
this is so Tex amp extreme version and I
don't know what else can we really say
about it except that it's indeed pretty
extreme it's huge it's got a monster fin
stack and a triple fan cooler bold RGB
accents and a factory overclock this
should spit out some seriously high
fidelity gameplay from memory I'll be
using a 4 by 8 good kit of course
there's Dominator platinum RGB this is
the 3466 speed version and I think given
the platform we shouldn't have any
problem at all hitting that rated speed
maybe we can even go higher our power
supply is provided by be quiet and is
80-plus platinum rated this is the new
street power 11 platinum and will give
us 850 highly-efficient watts of output
plus basically silent operation as well
as full modularity and speaking of be
quiet here's another new product from
our German friends the pure bass 500 was
one of my favorite cases from last year
and now they've basically made it better
in every way with a 500 DX the front is
now a mesh instead of a solid panel and
they've added RGB accents chips to the
front and to the interior that default
to be quiet orange the case comes with
three pure o-rings fans and
even with a small footprint supports up
to a 360 millimetre radiator in the
front we're gonna need that space to fit
our cooler which is the winner of my a
i/o comparison from last week the NZXT
kraken z 73 this thing crushed the
competition when it came to keeping
temps the lowest at every fan speed and
it's got the coolest looking block and
pump top with a sixty millimeter LCD
programmable screen rounding out our
components is the 2 terabyte version of
intel's 660 p SSD this is still one of
the best bargains in storage as its nvme
and can regularly be found for about a
hundred dollars per terabyte especially
when it goes on sale so now that we have
all of our stuff detailed here
let's time-lapse this sucker and see how
it turns out
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
all right so we are all done with the
very first z4 90/10 900k built on the
channel and maybe the very first one on
YouTube I'm actually not even sure about
that unfortunately even though I would
very much like to I can't talk to you
about the performance data the thermal
data anything like that so make sure if
you want to see that there will be a
follow up video to this so we're gonna
be taking the same system doing a full
desc gaming setup doing all the
performance metrics that you guys want
to see and that'll be coming later on
the channel so get subscribed if you
don't want to miss that but I did take
some precautions as I'm sure you guys
saw it in the b-roll just to prevent
Blackhawk helicopters and Intel's
lawyers from descending down onto my
roof so I have blurred out even the idle
temperatures on the Z 73 so sorry that I
can't show you guys that initially I
thought it wasn't that big of a deal but
then again I don't really know so better
safe than sorry and we'll talk about all
that at a later time
when we can what we can talk about is
this build itself the build process what
I thought of this case now the 500 DX
from be quiet is very similar in layout
to the original pure base 500 and that's
a good thing I really did like building
in that case but when I did that initial
build it was with kind of mid-range
hardware this is another story
you can still fit everything in here I
have the 360 rad up front I have this
massive graphics card in there I have
all the wiring around back
it all fits it's not an issue but you
will have to make some compromises the
first thing is if you're gonna put a 360
in here you I did have to take out the
hard drive cage I also had to change the
way I had the fans oriented initially in
the build montage maybe you guys saw I
had them on the inside of the case but
in order to fit our very massive GPU I
had to flip them and put them on the
outside of the case instead I also had
to be creative with how I rounded all
our cabling up at the top there's not a
whole lot of room up top here so in
order to fit the two fans the two EPs
cables and all the cabling coming off of
the Kraken I had to basically take the
fans out
install the wiring first drop them on
the board in screw down them on the
board and then reinstall the fans so
there's a reason why in the build
montage you didn't see me physically
dropping the motherboard into this case
because there was a lot of cursing when
I did that it was difficult it was it
was challenging given space constraints
but it all does fit so if you are
planning a build like this in this case
just know it's gonna take you guys a
little bit longer than normal it took me
a little bit longer than normal but
everything goes in I was able to close
the back panel no problem there's plenty
of tie down points for cabling around
back so you could get everything in here
and it does obviously look really good
and I have high hopes for our thermal
results given that there is additional
ventilation here over the original 500
but I guess we'll find that out pretty
soon so if you don't want to miss the
upcoming second part of this project
where we do the full desk setup and I
talked about its performance in various
games make sure to get subscribed to
that notification bell and hit that like
button if this video did anything for
you also if you want to talk about what
you think of this system what you think
the performance is gonna be even what
you think of Intel's new CPUs let me
know down below in the comments I'll be
lurking around there and maybe I'll chat
with some of you guys as far as what I
think we're gonna see versus what you
guys think and yeah we'll generate some
kind of healthy discussion that way
hopefully without me breaking any NDA's
so thanks for watching guys i really
enjoyed this build and I'm looking
forward to part 2 hope you guys are - I
will see you next time
hi guys it's time for my second video on
the Z 490 motherboards for the upcoming
10th Gen Intel Core CPUs and today's
video is all about these seven
motherboards from Asus
now I covered five different
motherboards from gigabyte a few days
back and if you want to check that video
out I'm gonna leave a link somewhere up
here as well as in the description down
below unfortunately I am still not
allowed to share any performance related
data so I'm not gonna talk about that
but I am gonna talk about what these new
motherboards bring what are their
features and what sets them apart let's
begin this video is brought to you by
Corsair and their k95 are to be platinum
xt mechanical keyboard the new k95
features a beautiful aluminum design
Cherry MX switches dedicated media
buttons with an extra row for dedicated
macro keys extra durable pbt caps and a
very comfortable and soft wrist rest
check it out using the links in the
description below right now I know of at
least 17 different motherboards that
Asus is preparing to launch five will be
under their high-end ROG Maximus 12 lag
7 Strix branded boards 3 primes one
tough and one pro art before going over
each one of these I want to take a quick
look at the biggest changes agencies
bring into this new generation of
motherboards similarly to gigabyte the
main focus this here is vrm design so
making sure that the new boards can
handle those high power 10 cores asus
isn't talking about phases anymore but
instead focusing on the number of power
stages instead which kind of makes sense
as they've made a habit of using two
stages per phase which they feel is a
better solution now as I said in the
last video
I'll leave the detailed analysis to
specialists like Bill Zoid
but seeing that even entry-level boards
are now getting pretty similar power
designed to last year's hero boards it
should just mean that most of us won't
have to worry about VRMs anymore now
they're also putting a lot of work into
their BIOS and software experience less
generations a overclocking is still here
of
letting the motherboard figure out a
reliable overclock based on your system
cooling performance and your cpu quality
now this generation they're actually
adding AI cooling to that so this is
supposed to be another self learning
feature where the motherboard finds out
what impact each of the fans has on your
system temperature so it will try to
limit the fan if it turns out it's not
really helping as much as you expect it
to this should lead to a more balanced
system overall in terms of temperatures
and noise so let's start with the most
basic model that I have right here which
is the tough gaming Z 490 plus now
besides the fact it looks quite nice
with some PCB cutouts and yellow details
it actually has really decent VRMs seven
phases 12 plus 2d our mouse power stages
and some pretty large heat sinks on top
asus claims that will comfortably handle
the upcoming tank core CPUs and that
actually sounds very likely the fact
that they're only six fan headers one
addressable RGB header and no physical
buttons nor a hex display shows that
this stuff motherboard is on a lower end
of the spectrum but it still comes with
two end point two slots and a fast USB
type-c header which many affordable
boards from the last generation did not
have keep in mind there is only one
typical USB 2 connection so if you want
to go with a bunch of RGB hardware from
NZXT or coarser you might like USB
headers for that there is a total of six
USB headers in the back two of those are
USB 3.0 gen - but unfortunately there is
no BIOS flash option which is present on
all ROG and Strix boards there is a
single intel Gigabit LAN header Wi-Fi 6
and audio comes from the ALC 1200 chip
which is actually pretty good so let's
say this tough gaming motherboard is a
bit light on some headers and
connections but it should still be
enough for your typical gaming rig if
you want to run a high-end CPU without
buying a really expensive motherboard
now moving on to the ROG Strix z4 98
which is a black and white theme mother
like we used to see on the Prime series
and as I've said before there is not
enough of these on the market and I
personally love a black and white bill
so I'm really happy to see a Strix
version as well now this motherboard
might look completely different from the
tough gaming one but if you look at
specs they're actually not that
different
for example this too has a similar 12
plus 2 power stage VRMs which slightly
improves heat sinks you get to endpoint
two slots six SATA headers a type c
header seven fan headers to RGB and one
addressable RGB connection there is no
physical buttons but you do get two
proper USB 2 headers for accessories on
the inside on the back we have 8 USB
ports with a BIOS flash feature and you
get a higher end a OC 12 20 I do chip
now this one doesn't have Wi-Fi but you
do get a fast Intel 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet
port instead if you want something
that's a bit more OC focus then you
should go for the RG streaks the Z 4 90
II instead which is a z' higher-end
brother pretty much the V RMS are
upgraded to a 14 plus 2 power stage
layout and have a big heat pipe going
through them there is also a clip to
install a small fan on top for some more
vrm cooling which Asus does include in
the box but I somehow doubt that you
will end up using it and needing it
either way it is a serious upgrade from
the 4 phase 8 + 1 layout from the C 390
II and even that one was handling 9900 K
CPUs easily as you would expect with so
many motherboards in their lineup Asus
is very carefully adding features every
step of the way to make sure that their
high end boards still have some unique
features so with this one they started
adding some stuff and they added a hex
display but there is still no physical
buttons and there is no three and point
two connections just two now still the
overall feature set should be enough for
most of you with 10 USB ports in the
back four of those being USB 3.2 gen 2
Wi-Fi 62.5 Gigabit LAN there is high end
audio
and plenty of headers internally
including eight fan headers and two
addressable RGB connections up from
there we get to our first maximus board
and this is the RG Maximus 12 hero now
the here was always a favorite amongst
reviewers mothers and overclockers and
not because it looks so impressive but
because it always had everything it has
so many features I mean from physical
buttons to flow sensors or headers for
your water temperature probes and so on
now the previous hero did leave many of
us wanting a little bit more offering
only for phase eight power stage V RMS
for the CPU and only to M point two
slots now thankfully this is Z for
ninety hero is packed properly as it
comes with seven phase and fourteen
power stage V RMS for the CPU combined
with a big heat pipe and some big heat
sinks there is even an extra optional
fan that you will again probably never
need now there are three and point two
slots all covered by heat sinks there is
two addressable RGB headers and the rear
i/o looks good as well with 10 USB ports
out of it for our USB 3.0 gen - there is
a one gigabit and a five gigabit lan
Wi-Fi six and you get their high-end
supreme FX audio with an optical out if
you're looking forward to the purely
overclocking focused apex motherboard
you will have to wait a bit longer
because that one is not coming out yet
but I do have here the custom loop
focused Maximus 12 formula motherboard
now this one is in some features very
similar to the hero one but it does have
a couple of changes the big one is of
course the inclusion of the EK block on
the v RMS which you can just hook up to
your own custom loop considering that
this has 16 70 amp power stages just for
the CPU water cooling them is probably
more for show than really necessary
they've also added the OLED display
right under the CPU so you can use that
for showing some information or just
showing your own animation and the other
upgrade over the here we see on the rear
i/o where the
formula now has a 10 gigabit and a 2.5
gigabit lan but no there are no HDMI or
DisplayPort headers so you will need to
connect to a GPU to use this motherboard
and that brings me to the ultimate beast
of this generation the Maximus 12
extreme a big and heavy extended ATX
board that just looks completely nuts it
is one of those boards where the
designer just went around looking for
all the crazy stuff you could find to
put on it so you have 16 high-end 90 amp
power stages just for the CPU massive
heat pipes and heat sinks the Ola
display all the overclocking and water
cooling features you name it and it just
goes crazy with all the connections as
well so you now have four and point two
slots to avoid into using the dim point
to slot next to your memory there is
eight SATA ports to fast type C headers
to USB 3 headers 14 fan headers and two
addressable RGB headers and if you think
that isn't enough you actually get an
extension card that can hold another six
fans so twenty total three more RGB
headers plus some more temperature
probes the rear i/o is also really good
there is 12 USB ports out of which four
are fast USB 3.0 gen 2 there is a 10 gig
line and a 2.5 gigglin Wi-Fi 6 and a
high end audio of course there is no
Thunderbolt on the i/o but instead you
get an add-in card with two Thunderbolt
three connections and a pass-through for
your display so I guess calling this
motherboard extreme is more than
justified when it comes to small form
factors Asus is actually giving some
love to Ma TX motherboards again with
two Strix models and at least one prime
model now unfortunately I don't have any
info on those yet but for all of you ITX
lovers out there I do have the Z 490 I
here it is an 8 plus 2 stage setup with
heat sinks on top and the side and it
has a
active fan in the IO cover meant to
improve vrm cooling now you get to em
point to headers both covered by the
stacked heatsink which is very nice and
the other features are pretty much what
you would expect there is four SATA
ports three fan headers one RGB and one
addressable RGB header and a single USB
to USB 3 and a fast type C header for
your case now the rear i/o includes
eight USB ports out of which four are
fast USB 3.0 gen two there is a two
point five gigabit Intel on Wi-Fi six
and while there is a high-end supreme
effects audio solution there is no
optical out so depending on how
power-hungry these new 10 cores will be
this should be a capable board for those
fancy compact ITX builds as I said in
the previous video I have no information
when it comes to pricing of these
motherboards and from what I've heard
they're going to be very similarly
priced 2d comparable X 570 boards if not
even more expensive so we will have to
wait and see how that will play out and
if I find something out I will leave it
down in the description below now that
is it for today thank you so much for
watching I hope you enjoyed this little
preview don't forget to subscribe give
me a thumbs up and see you in the next
one guys bye
you
[Music]
hi guys build Zoid here and so I did the
asrock motherboard a sort of first
impression so now we're gonna do Asus I
things here then from the asrock like
honestly I was surprised how bad the as
Roxy for ninety boards were like I was
like in it might like just seeing the
initial photos I didn't really pay too
much attention to like how many USB
ports they add primarily that and I was
like oh this it doesn't look so bad and
then I went through motherboards Roxy
for ninety line up and was like oh okay
no how about no just just no on the flip
side with Asus I mean I have much higher
expectations here just initially I think
like so far what I've seen of the asus
motherboard is like I liked it but I've
not gone through every single board and
made absolutely certain that they're
like we're gonna see if there's any
motherboards here that you know I'm like
because currently I'm basically thinking
of testing the z4 90g because M ATX is a
the thing I like about em ATX boards is
that the the boxes take up less space so
and I have those they're easier to store
around the place then the ATX boards are
or or even worse like the e ATX boards
like the high end boards with the the
really nice packaging and everything
they they're the worst they they take up
the most space that's an actual concern
at this point so I I want to test the
the - G also because it looks like it
shares a lot of its design with some of
the other ATX boards so it feels like I
can test that a - G and and draw
conclusions from that board that applied
to a very large portion of asus
motherboard lineup so I have to do less
work and I get to test the most like
it's also the most unique motherboard in
that it's like em ATX and m80 X is a
very neglected form factor these days
and then what else do we have like yeah
and then there's the apex which I'm
buying because the apex is just the apex
it's like the super geared for extreme
overclockers board and I'm super excited
for it like I'm really quite annoyed
that I never got my chance
never got a chance to mess with them the
Maximus 11 apex so with the with the 12
you know I want to see if like I want to
see what they managed to do with it so
anyway let's get into it starting off
unfortunately Isis's website there's no
way to really like reorganize it also I
will be referring to new egg for pricing
because as far as I know their pricing
is actually accurate and see this is
what I like what I like about the apex
is like a like because this doesn't have
like the most high in power stages and
there's some things where it looks like
the apex isn't like it doesn't look as
extreme in terms of like raw hardware
specs as say the Maximus 12 extreme but
the thing I like it like it's a six
layer PCB whereas I think the 12 extreme
is like an 8 layer the thing is this is
a 2d model board you don't need that
many layers to implement a very good to
Dame very whereas you need more layers
if you want to implement a good four
dimm layout so I don't really
necessarily see like I actually like
that ASIS like the thing is because it's
so geared towards extreme overclocking
they're kind of chopping off some of the
excess expenses that you get on gaming
boards ultimately it's still expensive
at $400 but at least it's not more
expensive than the hero and it's
definitely gonna run circles around here
like well I'd be very surprised if the
apex didn't run circles around the hero
in terms of overclocking so yeah I'm
excited for the apex board but and I'm
also excited for the rest of the lineup
but we'll see if there's anything that
surprises me here so let's just get into
it so z 490
- e-atx gaming motherboard featuring 16
power stages AI over top yeah yeah AI
garbage until two and a half gig duel
I'm not to heatsinks whatever just take
a look the 16 power stages like do they
say what power stages high quality I
guess if we scroll through like they're
saying until 14 + 2 phase I mean 14 plus
2 power stage configuration which 7
phase V core - FEI I know that's gonna
be like 7 phase of ecor1 - phase I GPU I
guess you know like there that I have a
like a like a problem with that
Asus like the the thing is the if you
have a low phase count there's just
certain workarounds that you need to
implement to compensate for it and
you know Asus is fully capable of doing
that so then it's just so I don't have a
problem with what they're doing with a
board like this so I hate these overly
interactive website Oh No yeah I hate
this I absolutely hate these websites
it's like why why is it so animated just
give me information this is awful
right so power to digital yeah okay Pro
cool - it's a joke - bloody power can
eight and a 4-pin actually Oh a pin and
four pin on Z 490 actually if you're
pushing it to 900k you can max out an
eight pin power connector so the extra
four pin is very much necessary with the
ten 900k digi+ power controller yeah
this just does that's just what Asus
calls their power delivery it's like a
marketing thing everybody uses digital
voltage controllers Asus just gets their
manufacturers to rebrand the controllers
with digi+ branding so though it
actually looks like this looks like that
has regular on semi branding right there
at least like I'm seeing what looks like
an on semi-conductor logo on there so
anyway 14 + - yeah yeah yeah a low H oh
yeah yeah like this is all standard
motherboard things and they never
mentioned the power stages okay well as
a bit of a disappointment storage in
memory up to 4600 that's not the highest
I've seen for Z 490 but you know like
the thing is this is doing 4600 on to
Dames is way better
also since they're talking about reduced
views and crosstalk I'm gonna assume
that they're actually doing tab traces
and we can't can't see it because that's
like the main thing the tab traces are
supposed to help with is - crosstalk and
also I'm pretty sure like everything is
daisy chain now which is part of why the
like the funny thing is like daisy chain
has a higher peak frequency than tea
topology but teach apologies I guess
more consistent in terms of the
frequencies you can hit or actually not
really because on to Tim's D topology
actually straight-up suffers whereas on
for Tim's tea topology is like slightly
better than a daisy chain doing too
four dims so yeah it's it's just like
this is one of the things that
ultimately you'd want to test but 4,600
it's not the highest I've seen for daisy
chains on the 490 it's also like I'm not
sure how truthful the other Z 490 daisy
chain motherboards that are like yeah we
can do 5 gigahertz on this you know how
easy that 5 gigahertz actually is to do
you know maybe asus is going like
definitely 4,600 as possible and you
know that I feel has more weight to it
than going like with this very specific
kit you can do 5g it's like well what if
I don't want to use that very specific
kit well then right anyway so moving on
you've got dual PC
I'm not twos undeniably are strikes I
don't care wait is that the bloatware
that comes in the BIOS whatever like
motherboards software is terrible so
they don't say anything about the power
stages which is a shame but the thing is
they do have like 14 of the damn things
so I'm gonna guess they're using like 60
or 50 like si si like they're probably
going to use the same power stages that
they've used on like a toff x5 like the
x5 70 tough or the or even the like
Maximus 11 hero right like that's the
thing is like they're not actually
changing the power stations they're just
using more of them which is fine like
that's the thing is like just use please
use more power stages was basically my
biggest problem with the heroes on z3 is
e3 90 so you know it now we've got 14
power stages on even a - e motherboard
so and the heat sinks I mean they look
like the I think those look decent you
know and like the thing is it's really
hard to estimate heatsink effectiveness
from from pictures because there's more
to it than just having a loss of surface
area because if you make a really dense
heatsink you can technically have a lot
of surface area but it'll also
absolutely just stall any airflow trying
to get through it and you know so all of
the surface area like like technically
the fibers making up like
you know a ball of wool right a ball of
wool has a ridiculous amount of surface
area it's not a good heatsink though and
even if it was made of metal instead of
whatever it is that wool is made out of
it wouldn't be a good heatsink because
air would just get trapped in it even
though it has a ton of surface area so
it's not just about surface area there's
also you know like air flow
considerations that go into it and this
looks like a heat sink that you know
there's a decent amount of surface area
it's definitely very heavy and the cuts
they have made into it like they're
pretty open so air shouldn't have too
much trouble actually like getting
through the heat sink right that's
that's all feel like you know it's great
when you have all the surface area but
then the air doesn't actually go through
it and so it's not doing anything that
is it like have you know like if you've
ever seen
you know like fully passive heatsink
designs you'll notice that they have
very open sort of thin stacks and the
reason why they're so open is because if
you make a dense fin stack and then
expect it to work passively it won't
because it just traps air because of how
restrictive it is to airflow so yeah
judging heat sinks is just impossible
impossible from photos but this looks
like it could definitely work well at
the same time it might not even have to
do that much work because there is 14
power stages under there and even if
they're like 50s that is a substantial
vrm so like 50 amp hour stages that's
that's still a very substantial vrm
right there I'm not seeing anything
that's particularly like a mega
impressed with oh and they have BIOS
flashback that's nice
USB ports let's see is in the specs
if they give us anything more useful for
Dames I wonder if we have a qvl for
memory that I don't have to download CPU
memory support memory
um okay no buts it's not working I have
to say like MSI's website is the best
rule looking up member actually MSI and
as well could do the best job of having
like memory qvl spaces and I think
gigabyte as well you need to straight up
like download actually I think it's only
Asus now that you need to download a PDF
with with all of the different memory
kits they tested which is just like why
don't you just have that all in your
website like why do I need to download a
PDF to read a bunch of text I can you
not have text on your website so yeah
I'm not really seeing anything like this
just looks like a decent all-around
motherboard how much is it going to cost
though - II 300 oh I guess that's why it
looks decent doesn't it yeah but but it
just looks like a solid motherboard
actually I think at this price point it
might be one of the more powerful vrm
designs you can get anyway let's move on
to the dash G because that's the one I
actually want to test so featuring 14
power stages so okay so this one does
actually have a slightly different erm
but the dash G is also like two hundred
and forty dollars so it's not the most
expensive of like it's one of the
cheaper z4 90s out there
no the like you know I I do consider low
Enzi 490 being like below $200 and then
you start getting the really nice two
motherboards around the $200 range and
then once you get up to like $300 that's
when you get the fully featured boards
wait does the oh they have a postcode on
the dash e yeah see that's that's what I
mean when I say fully featured
unfortunately they've put the postcode
in the wrong location but at least it's
there so at least we have the the
postcode where like on the board at all
because that is super helpful if you're
overclocking and around $300 like
there's no excuse to not have a postcode
in my opinion
so yeah that's it's nice so let's take a
look at the dash G so no postcode but we
do have the the debug LEDs up there
downgraded we all REM with the 14
because it's a 12 plus - I assume if if
this has video outputs then it has
yeah it has to have a GPU power
otherwise there wouldn't be an HDMI on
the back I don't like how they're like
you know highlighting parts of the rear
i/o and then this photo is like you can
barely see through your i/o they have
BIOS flash back on this as well so
that's neat what else do we have here
power design and will they tell us what
we are no we have the metal shield like
the metal power connector that's like
that the four pins necessary the metal
Pat like the metal on the eight pin I
don't know what the hell that's supposed
to do metal armor for improved heat
dissipation the problem I have with this
statement of metal armor for improved
heat dissipation is wouldn't like
ultimately the thing that's like the
connector itself is plastic right so the
thing that gets halt inside the
connector is the metal contacts between
the power connector from your power
supply and and the motherboard so the
metal contacts those get halt and that
heat then transfers to the plastic and
the concern is that the plastic gets so
hot that it melts at some point like
that's that's if you overload a power
connector the the plastic melts and you
know that's no good because then if the
plastic melts the thing holding the
connector together is gone and now you
have the potential for like the wires to
get loose and short something out and
that would be very bad but the thing is
like so I can see the metal holding the
plastic together I don't see how the
metal would sink heat faster than
plastic because it's not like the metal
is adding any surface areas right like
if we're looking at it from the
perspective of like like is that maybe
the plastic is worse shedding like maybe
the metal - I mean plastic to metal to
air heat transfer is faster than plastic
straight to air but that doesn't really
like my understanding of basic like
thermal physics is you want less
interfaces no more and the reason why
unlike a CPU you'll go you know die
solder IHS thermal paste heatsink is
because once you get to the heatsink you
have you know like a thousand times as
much surface area as the actual silicon
of the CPU
has and so it makes sense to have the
heatsink because it adds so much surface
area right where is the dye
there's too much too little surface area
so the goal is to get the heat into
something with a lot of surface area
because that'll be able to get rid of
the heat very quickly but that metal
casing on the connector looks to have
about as much surface area as the
connector itself so I am NOT seeing how
that would be light like I don't know
but I guess I'd like I don't think it
does anything I don't think it actually
does anything it does certain I don't
think it hurts anything either but I
don't think it has any functional
purpose it's just kind of there anyway
12 plus and they still don't tell us
what power stages they're using I had a
minute one two three because this is
going to be VCC SA and I actually why
man I like so with Z for 90 because
Intel is so supportive of overclocking
you have so many different voltage rails
that it's actually kind of hard to keep
track of so white one so one two three
four five six seven eight nine ten 11 12
13 14 15 16
okay so this is I'm gonna assume is like
VCC sa they have a four MOSFET VCC si
that's insane like I am very confused
why that like that looks like the most
substantial VCCS a phase I've seen or
maybe they're just using really garbage
MOSFETs that's also an option well no
but those are like VCC si is not a how
high power rail you shouldn't need two
inductors in two - yeah I'm confused and
this might have like maybe two phase V
si si si might help with overclocking a
little bit for memory but anyway well
that's a very substantial VCC si I'm
unlucky doll so be VCC sa and vc cio
together but it's like the mosfet layout
for that doesn't look
like that's what it is because the
MOSFET seemed to be but all going
actually that looks like a giant
single-phase with the layout that
they're doing there but it's really hard
to tell anyway we'll find out when I
actually buy the board and test it right
like but yeah that's kind of interesting
because I'd assume like that's like
that's if that's giant VCCS a then it
would be the same as a lot of other
boards where you have VCC i/o VCC VCC IO
down in this area then all of the other
minor rails down in this area as well
but here it looks like they might have
ECC i/o and VCC s8 over here which is
actually like that's a layout you'd see
a lot on Zee 390 boards but only 490
generally IO and sa like IO at least is
down in this area so yeah that is that
is a interest like that is a confusing
layout also it doesn't actually affect
anything but this this extra capacity
over here is just like visually annoying
like I don't like it
where that cap is because you have this
lovely row of caps and this other lovely
row of caps and that's all nice and like
symmetrical and pleasing to look at and
then there's this guy over here as like
like he's obviously that caps necessary
it wouldn't be there otherwise but I
feel like they should have like tried to
I I don't know like I don't like the
like it just kind of sticks out and
doesn't affect anything but I just think
it looks weird anyway so 12 plus 2 also
it's interesting that they're leaving
out some of the multi-layer ceramics I
guess when I get the board I can mess
around with like adding those back on
[Music]
will get like oh I'll get a successor to
my Z 390 gene out of this board swap all
the inductors out of much of capacitors
and go like oh yeah I reduce the
overshoot by like I think 30 millivolts
or something which is like it hasn't
actually affect anything at that point
but whatever and then yeah standard the
standard alloy trick choke capacitor
marketing from Asus storage and memory
don't really care yeah see this is going
to be the same memory layout as the c49
de
[Music]
which this is the reason like and this
is one of the things is like if you're
not gonna be buying a ten nine hundred K
and even if you're gonna be ten nine
hundred okay I feel like I'd be I'd be
pretty confident with this power
delivery for for a ten nine hundred K
and the heat sinks that this comes with
but like even on like a relatively you
know cheap board you're getting the same
like really good memory overclocking
support so yeah like I that's why I
don't want to really go and test
something like the - II cuz it's like I
think I can draw most of the conclusions
for the entire lineup from the dash G
anyway and also I just think like em ATX
is cool takes up less space on the desk
when testing it - that's another benefit
do all I'm dolt - okay da what do we
have with D I want pre-mounted IO shield
okay all right if I just scroll through
it and does it go through and doesn't go
through all the same stuff wait a minute
did I miss something in the power to
cooling oh now that I guess they're just
highlighting the different vrm okay they
have a thermal path yeah you have a
heatsink of course okay I actually don't
care that much scroll down why did that
play oh well whatever
actually why did that make a sound I'll
have to I'll look into that later anyway
so what else do we have five way
optimization random motherboard software
yeah so this is the kind of thing that
you just have to test
did you plus power control like it's
neat that they give you access to the
vrm controls in Windows at the same time
the last time like AI suite was last
good unlike ddr3 platforms because like
since then the various motherboard
vendors like overclocking like
motherboard utility software for Windows
husband
getting steadily more and more bloated
and I really don't like it so yeah
anyway let's go over here see 490 I so
this is a three hundred dollar ITX board
it's one of the most expensive ITX
motherboards for Z 490 not that they're
significantly like there's not many
significantly cheaper options gigabyte
for exams and msi both have like their
gigabyte MSI and asrock are both around
207 while all around 270 dollars and
those boards also look really really
solid so I'm very interested in testing
them out mostly because of the memory
overclocking potential not because I
actually care about small form-factor
systems it's just like ITX is great for
memory because you only have two DIMM
slots and that gives you a major major
overclocking advantage so anyway let's
let's scroll through here I'm not gonna
be testing this mostly because it's $300
and there's other ITX boards I'll be
testing I'm not really a fan of having
the the debug LEDs where is it like
mashed between the 24 pin over there
they have a fan hiding in the i/o cover
so if you're looking at this and going
like oh there's no VR I mean heatsink I
assume what they're doing here is they
have a fan and then there's a thin stack
that they're exhausting air probably
through like this area down here and
maybe out the top as well it's kind of
hard to tell let's see if there's better
photos of that
no there isn't we can't really see into
that area but I feel like they like if
you have that fan and that I'd have
assumed like well I think it would have
been good to have that top area somewhat
open it looks like it's pretty closed
off though but then down towards the
bottom we have that you know hole over
here like it looks like a hole so I'm
gonna assume that it's gonna exhaust
like vrm heat down there and at the same
time it's slightly how is this VR so
they have like what looks like four
inductors over there then most of the
actual vrm is up top
actually now there's probably two more
inductors hiding in there because I
think this is an eight phase-- let's
let's go back to the overview eight plus
two okay
way what four plus two phase really
because okay well I don't think Asus
would use an actual Intersil voltage
controller like I don't I can't think of
an intra sill and like any ASIS anything
with an intracellular now that I think
of it and I'm not sure maybe there's
some other manufacturer doing a 10 phase
controller actually international rec -
no no IR Infineon has a 10 phase which
might be under I our branding anyway but
yeah I'm not sure like the the thing is
it's even if it was a 4 + 2 phase like
asus knows how to compensate for the low
phase count really well because they've
been doing it for for ages
yeah actually you can see it pretty
clearly right there so i'm guessing
they're using an asp 1405 here because 1
2 3 yeah so they have four phases over
here
I mean two two phases down here then
they have another yeah so they're gonna
have like a GPU two more phases of ecore
two phase vccs a again here i would
really assume this is VCC sa and vc cio
right like cuz there's not that much
space to just have a two phase vccs a
unless they really think like that is
very like i really wonder about that the
thing is they're saying a plus two at
the same time it dr morphs those would
look like smart power stages i would
wouldn't well I guess technically
they're driver mall sets as well but
that I feel like lumping smart power
stages with the other dr moss parts is
kind of not fair to the smart power
stages they are a lot better than the
regular dr most parts and that is the
five by six millimeter package that you
get your smart smart power stages and so
yeah I wish they would give us an
indication of how much current they're
supposed to be able to handle on their
own website because the thing is like
most of the review sites mentioned
these days like what current handling
spec you have I'm gonna assume they're
90s mostly because it's like MSI asrock
gigabyte they all all use 90s on their
ITX boards so and even then like the
funny thing is the difference between
the 90s and the 70 I'm smart and a small
power stages there's not that much so
like even if this was on 70s I wouldn't
actually care so yeah
yes let's look at the Rio Rio that
actually looks solid for INT export
likes it doesn't have as few USB ports
as it could so yeah the thing for me is
like this this looks like a solid ITX
board I just don't see anything that's
like super stand out to me and it's also
$300 so it's not even like it's not you
know it's a it's not as cheap as some of
the other ITX boards it doesn't look any
really better than the other ITX boards
not to me at least I there might be some
feature I'm missing yeah but it's same
Intel two-and-a-half gigs out everybody
else uses Wi-Fi six which everybody else
uses actually I think MSI might be two
and a half gig Realtek but and you know
like at least gigabyte I think uses
Intel 4800 the thing I'm like I'm
surprised that they're not saying this
board can do five thousand because it is
a to de mer
yeah so you have the little fan hiding
in there oops hit the mic yeah I'm not
really like it looks like it should be a
solid board it's no doesn't just seem
like I'm not seeing anything that has me
like super impressed oops let's take a
look at the Z 490 - a gaming 250 bucks
and the Oasis website is okay there we
go
14 power stages yeah so this is the same
vrm as the dash G right yep 14 power
stages I assume it has a yep that's hdmi
and displayport on the rear so it has to
have an IG pu phase at least one and
actually they tell us straight up 12
plus 2 so there looks like it has less
Capac white and okay now I think they
just shuffled the capacitors around a
bit so it looks different but anyway the
scrolling through oh they shuffled the
VCCS AVR em away I guess yeah like VCCS
a isn't up there anymore it's down here
now let's see if they have anything
special cooling no really the RM that's
a vrm heatsink whatever 4600 same thing
like this this just looks like a solid
$250 motherboard I'm not seeing anything
particularly concerned like I I wish it
maybe had a postcode but you know we
still have the basic debug LEDs over
there and the rear i/o isn't too bad I'm
assuming right
yes well yeah this is not as bad as it
could be I guess after seeing Z 490 as
rock boards and my standards have signal
lowered significantly for USB port
demands I still feel like they should
have given us like like this should have
had a full stack somewhere like four USB
ports just stacked up instead of just
the the two port towers but uh yeah I'm
not seeing anything that's like concern
worthy and two hundred and fifty dollars
it might like it might not be the most
cost-effective option but I assume a lot
of people will be going for that board
mostly because it's like silver I do not
consider that white whereas everybody
like this is one of the things I don't
like about RGB is just like all of them
other boards are now black or white and
there's no color anymore and so it's
like you're either gonna have a black
board or you're gonna have a white board
and that's your that's your choices you
can't have a blue board or a green
border right red board no black and
white they'll actually know the - age
from Asus does give us a dash of red I
wish they had gone heavier ahead because
I really missed the old black and red
rog boards that it's just like we don't
get those anymore
everything is just black or gray anyway
does this look decent well yeah this
looks like the same vrm as the dash G
and it's also about the same price as
the dash G yeah this actually looks like
the - a - I guess they removed something
so anyway I'm I'm not really going
through this in order am i white because
I just scrolled down to a board I was
interested in but wait G oh this is the
G with Wi-Fi wait is this the Wi-Fi
version oh cool so I might be able to
get a dash G for even less once they
offer the non Wi-Fi version perfect
because it's not like I'm gonna be
testing Wi-Fi sakes
- f what's the - F for it's 270 okay so
actually I need to have the dash a and
the dash F open at the same time so that
I have some idea of what they're
changing I think this just gets a better
vrm right no this is still stout at the
same vrm as the - a i/o they did they
add the heat pipe
I guess they added a heap yeah it looks
like I yeah it looks like they added a
heat pipe I don't think I'd pay ten
dollars for a heat pipe rear i/o looks
the same vrm looks the same what did
they change memory is the same hmm yeah
that this looks like the same board wait
so until two and a half gig because they
had to have changed something right no
this is also until two and a half gig is
there a postcode or something
like what why does I I don't get it it's
the same board in slightly different
colors and I guess you're paying I guess
the black paint costs extra and also
there's the heat pipe yeah so if we zoom
in on this and zoom in on this it's the
same oh I guess they reshuffled like
this PCIe is new so I guess they're
giving you a slightly different PCI you
like a PCIe slot like like layout but
other than that it's the same board so I
guess you know if you're if you're
considering like if you like the look of
the dash F and you're going like oh yeah
I'm gonna buy a z4 90 dash F strongly
consider the dash a because or actually
maybe not because they're ten like
they're ten dollars apart there's not
really like I guess you could spend ten
dollars more on your memory and that's
ultimately gonna do make a bigger
difference or ten dollars more on your
cooling system or you know you like that
that's the thing is like every X dollars
you save on your motherboard is money
you can put towards something like that
towards something else and you know if
as long as your motherboard is still
good at memory overclocking right you
can just keep dumping more and more
budget into the memory kit to get
slightly more CPU performance after
you've maxed out say your CPU cooling
system
at the same time I wouldn't go for like
a crazy CPU cooling system at the cost
of having a trash memory kit because
sure now your CPU is really fast
except it's constantly stalled out
waiting for data from the RAM right so
there's a sort of a balance to strike
but yeah like the thing is the the
motherboard just kind of connects things
together so it's like if it doesn't have
more connectors if it doesn't have you
know features you want that like any
extra features you want well I pay for
it that's that's my main question and it
like this the Hat it adds a heat pipe I
don't think that heat pipe does much of
anything for the overall thermals or if
it does do like a problem like that heat
pipe isn't likely to drastically change
the thermal performance of the erm so I
I don't really see a reason to like
worry too much about getting the heat
pipe I wonder if they have oh I guess
they show an accessory pac-man why do
they have this stupid zoom setup like
there's enough space on this screen to
have all of the pre like the little
thumbnails available down there even the
accessory pack looks very similar so
yeah I'm confused but anyway so that's
the - I guess let's go to the z4 90-plus
tough okay so same vrm as the yeah
that's still though they've reshuffled
the VCCS AVR em away again oh wait this
is the way what no it isn't okay wait
let's just scroll down oh boy okay well
let's just check the price for the tough
so tough Wi-Fi 200 bucks
so this is one of the like $200 I feel
like is the sweet spot was easy for and
I knew where you get like really nice
boards from a variety of different
manufacturers depending on so you know
basically what you do is you go to $200
and then you compare the different
feature sets these heat sinks look like
they have a lot of surface area so I
like that and
the rear i/o I'm oh man that's not a lot
of USB ports I am NOT a fan I like the
thing is is like in my personal system I
have a lot of USB ports used up so it's
like seeing a motherboard with not many
USB ports is like is like most people
don't need I guess like most people just
have like a keyboard mouse maybe a
printer maybe a webcam you know and
that's like four USB ports except I've
got a printer - you - you have two
webcams then like SATA USB soundcard
like basically I just hog USB ports like
crazy so obviously my needs as far as
USB ports go are not very realistic but
the thing is I don't feel like the USB
ports one of the things that should adds
a significant cost to motherboard
manufacturing like I've not actually
asked how much extra you know two extra
USB ports cost for a motherboard maker
but you know like it is one of those
things that I do do care about a lot
having a lot of USB ports so not really
a fan of the fact that this doesn't have
that many why is the website so slow
this looks vr my is to be basically the
- GV RM with like some capacitors
removed so I guess the you know the
transient response on this is going to
be ever so slightly worse probably in
the overshoot direction actually they
really like if we scroll down
oh also what's neat this still uses the
six layer PCB but that's the thing like
there's a lot of the motherboard vendors
at $200 are using six layer PCBs so this
is why like like basically going from
like $200 all the way up until like
three hundred and fifty dollars with a
lot of the different manufacturers
you're gonna get the exact same memory
overclocking performance because they're
using the like they're using us they're
still using a six layer PCB for every
single one of those boards in that price
range and so they can take the memory
top topology of a 350 dollar board and
just stick it onto a two hundred dollar
board
that's like the only requirement for
doing that is like do you have it six
layer PCB right if you have a six hour
PCB you can do a six layer memory
topology and so you can use a memory
design that goes all the way up to like
a 350 dollar board and so you don't see
like huge differences in terms of memory
overclocking capabilities right this is
a 400 this does 4,600 and then if we go
up to like the dash e if I remember
correctly was also up to 4600 because
it's also a six layer PCB using probably
the exact same daisy chain so you know
like the the the the other benefit to
that is is of course if they're doing
like BIOS optimizations for memory
overclocking than a memory overclock
like that they can do essentially one
BIOS updates and it works on all of the
boards because the topology like all of
the boards sharing the same topology
it'll have the same positive effect so
like there's a bunch of reasons why you
don't see like a lot of like like that's
why you don't see a lot of variety there
all right like if we go through this
yeah 4600 see and this is a $300 board
so you can save a hundred like that if
you don't need some of the features that
this offers you can drop down a hundred
dollars and you still get the same exact
memory overclocking performance that
you'd get at $300 which is just kind of
neat in my opinion then we have the
solid pin power connectors this is
standard for like asus and gigabyte both
use these on the regular and this does
help so the regular like the traditional
yeah is max 384 dat and then you have
the solid pins which so this this 480
watt rating i think is only if you're
using 18 gauge power supply way 18 yeah
18 gauge power supply cables but there
are some power supplies that actually
use 16 gauge for the 8 pin power
connectors and then these solid pins
like I think the solid pin power
connector that ends up with a power
rating that's a little over 600 watts
obviously if your power supply doesn't
use 16 gauge cables that doesn't really
help you and there's also a concern with
the power connectors where just because
you have an 8 pin like there are some PS
use that'll have us
six pin connector on the PSU end going
into an 8 pin on the motherboard end so
your motherboard might be fine but the
PSU end of the operation might actually
be out of spec by you know 33% so that's
one of the one of the concerns with with
like one of the benefits of having an 8
+ 4 pin configuration is if you have a
not so like if your power supply it like
because they do it even on I think some
high end power supplies where you have 6
pin - 8 pin power connectors going from
the power supply into the to the
motherboard so there you can go and use
to you know Slyke essentially on the
motherboard and you'll have I think 10
no yeah it will have 10 yeah cuz you'll
have 6 from your first 8 pin and then
you'll have like 4 pins on your second
you know on your 4 pin so you'll have 4
plus 6 at the power supply and that
should be able to handle plenty of power
but yeah it's just one of those weird
design decisions that you see in PSU is
in my opinion but I mean like seeing it
is not in my opinion like it's a weird
decision in my opinion because it's like
the power supply if anything should not
be you know should not have a weaker
power connector than the thing that it's
powering I like that should not be a
concern anyway so what else do we have
system stability we have tough
components which is just marketing stuff
did u + v RM marketing stuff that's
that's just a standard digital
controller we see those everywhere these
days
tough gaming alliance tough protection
so you have armor and your PCIe slots
yeah yeah easy configuration whatever
actually what saves law yes d the um
over voltage protection on board
resettable fuses prevent over current
and wait a minute
for them memory why would you need fuses
on the memory
I am very confused also
oh they don't have the vrm naked
pictures I'm not not just imagining that
I'm actually not seeing them yeah okay
no no naked vrm pictures don't like they
would tell us what power stages they're
using but I'm gonna assume like it's
gonna be the same as what you get on the
dash G which is another reason like I
can test the dash G and if that doesn't
run very hot then I can make the safe
assumption that the TUF doesn't run very
hot either and you get to save another
40 bucks there so that's pretty neat
like the main main problem I have with
this board is the USB ports but other
than that it looks like a solid
motherboard at $200 but there's a lot of
solid motherboards at $200 and some of
them have much more USB ports so you
know depending on your priorities you
might want to consider one of those
instead anyway next we have the z4 90 M
dash plus so like a low-cost M ATX
option um which 8 plus 1 so that's gonna
be 4 plus 1 in terms of actual phases 6
layer PCB that's actually surprising
that they're still using a six layer PCB
this slow I guess the idea but 4400 so I
wonder what they changed with the memory
that it's clocking worse because if
they're like I would have assumed that
this would still be on the same topology
but I guess they changed well there is
two capacitors here and there's only one
there but I don't know they've just
removed one so it Nate well okay well
apparently that maybe it's like power
delivery for the memory that they've
tweaked or something because I don't
think the actual but then again like
ddr4 just does like I I'm not I don't
think power defer to care for wigs that
much of an impact but yeah that's
interesting that they're saying only
4400 cuz I do I've expected to still do
4,600 if they're still using a six layer
PCB USB port situation is not great but
that was already the case on the tough
heat sinks look like they're designed to
actually run passive with a halfway
decent amount of surface area
this is motherboards not really designed
for like you know overclocking at ten
nine hundred K this is really meant for
more for like a ten seven hundred K ten
six hundred K so I don't really see a
problem with with the way this this
looks yeah yeah for a ten some 100 K
this would actually like be actually
wait a minute I think I recognize this
heatsink that looks a hell of a lot like
the heatsink they had on the z4 90 dash
a and that also used a you know eight
power stage erm and those were 45s so
maybe they bumped up the power stages
for this thing but the z4 390 - a
definitely like with a with a 9900 k you
could get the vrm to overheat quite
easily like it wasn't really that
difficult to do that so I guess this is
really meant for like a 10 600 K and if
you want to run a ten nine hundred K on
this you'd probably wanted like zip-tie
a fan to the vrm heat sinks cuz
otherwise yeah is it's good over like
the this will get very hot so but
overall like that that's like the thing
is this isn't meant for for overclocking
really so you know and that is also a
hundred and fifty dollar board so for
the six core it's a salt like it should
be a very solid like should be a solid
option and then if you just zip tie a
fan to the vrm and you can get you know
a 40 50 millimeter fan really cheap for
like five dollars like for five dollars
or if you just set up your case airflow
weird where you have like top air intake
right because normally everybody has top
air exhaust and the thing about top air
exhaust is that fans when when you're
pulling air into a fan the fan doesn't
concentrate the flow of the air very
much doing that so you essentially like
unless you have a metal like unless your
heatsink is like a metal mesh going over
the fan the fan is not gonna be pulling
air through the heatsink okay like if
there's any lower restriction available
air it'll pull that instead of
whatever's like whatever hot air is
coming off of your heat sink so that's
one of the one of the things is just
like
not like great in a pole configuration
when it comes to cooling especially if
you're not like restricting where they
can can boil their air from like unless
you're gonna have like a fan shroud that
you know forces all of the air to that
the fan is exhausting to go over the vrm
heat sink it's like an exhaust fan
sitting Nate like above the motherboard
is just not gonna do that much for
thermals so you really would need to
have a top air intake which is kind of
weird like that's not a very common way
of setting up your your airflow in your
case and that's why you know if you
don't want to run top air intake you
need to put a fan on the vrm because
otherwise you're just not actually gonna
be guaranteed any amount of airflow over
the vrm also I assume they're just copy
pasting this vrm design from the Z 390
boards and that vrm design does not have
software accessible temperature
monitoring so the the fun thing with
this vrm is it does have working
overtime like on Z 390 it had working
over temperature protection as in if it
gets too hot it'll shut down and I know
this works because that happened to me
while I was testing the board while I
was testing a Z 390 aces board it
actually just straight up shut down on
me and I was like oh ok I guess that
proves that the OTP is functional didn't
do that anymore after I threw a final in
it but yeah I would assume that this is
like like I guess if you're you know
hammering a 8 core or 10 core overclock
on this and the board randomly shuts
down on you while running a stress test
you've overheated the vrm that's that's
all there really is to that oh yeah $450
this is really like that it looks like a
solid board like I don't really have a
problem with it because like it's not
like you know it costs money to build a
bigger vrm oh yeah no like it could be
worse it could be a lot worse at that
price point what else do we have so that
was the M then we have the known Wi-Fi
plus then we have the dash H ooh the the
one with the red dash so that that one
makes me excited because it's the most
colorful motherboard so you know we're
still seeing the same vrm is on like the
dash G just slightly relayed out because
they've they've moved the VCCS a down
here instead of having it over here
which doesn't really like that's not a
big deal in my opinion
memory overclocking I'm gonna assume is
still the same okay no that's networking
storage in memory 4600 yeah it's still
the same how's the USB port situation
loaded dammit actually I guess cuz this
is 20 bucks more than the TUF I guess
you lose the Wi-Fi but if you don't want
the Wi-Fi I feel like this this might be
a actually the USB port situation on
this is still terrible was kinda hoping
that would be a lot better but nope you
do have to well I didn't really watch
for those so no like okay so you have
only one internal USB 3.0 over here but
you have two on this board so yeah this
one like oh man what is with those SATA
ports like there's still six of them but
they're just like flat like you don't
normally see them laid out like that
anyway so I guess you know if you're
ready to spend extra oh well if you have
a lot of front panel USB ports or if
you're willing to buy one of those like
PCIe slot USB port brackets you can you
can use this port and it'll give you a
lot of USB ports I'm not really seeing
anything hardware wise that's like all
this this is terrible or this is amazing
but yeah moving on so that's the - h
maximus 12 formula so this board
initially i would have written it like
initially i've written this off as
having a water block on the vrm and
that's really stupid and it is really
stupid but what isn't stupid is this has
ten gigabit ethernet which is kind of a
really neat feature because at around
well the like around $500 you don't like
i'm not aware of other like known ASUS
motherboards with ten gigabit so i think
that's really cool that they have that
and then of course you get the full like
it's a proper Maximus board so you've
got all the overclocking stuff right
you've got the sixteen power stage erm
I'm trying to see if they have anything
yeah like clear CMOS while flashback
you've got a bunch of USB ports 10 gig
two-and-a-half gig like Wi-Fi sakes like
yeah this is actually nice I I wish they
had a cheaper option for this but like
the there was a cheaper version of this
board without the stupid water block but
hey like you know if you can live with
paying for the water block that's that's
cool it's a cool board see yeah yeah we
know Asus doesn't like you don't like
paying for power owed for doublers or
capacitors or more like Asus likes
paying for extra capacitors on the input
side of the V RM and not on the output
that's that's really the main thing
that's like a significant difference if
you compare Asus V RMS to like a lot of
other vendors is just like their input
filter is ridiculous to compensate for
the lower phase counts high quality
components 7tm power stage is nice don't
really care about any of the other stuff
that they're talking about their memory
optimum 330 600 plus kids yeah I was
kind of hoping you tell me how many
layers you're using because that's the
question to me is like does this on uh
is this a six layer or an eighth layer
accurate voltage yeah so they have the
CPU die sense voltage readings and
they're replicating to the super i/o as
well as the thing is that's not digital
like that's an op-amp
it literally just copy-paste the analog
voltage level from the CPU die sense to
the Dyson life so the voltage input
voltage sense inputs of the super i/o so
I like this like it's a cool feature
this graphic is just kind of not so
great like this ports digital the the
part where the super i/o talks to the
software that's digital the part where
the Dyson's get
the voltage from the CPU Dyson's like
the Dyson's like the op-amp replicates
the Dyson's voltage to the super i/o
this is not digital
there's no ones and zeros involved in
that so yeah it's just like it's fine
it's fine though
so yeah this graphic is a bit misleading
but ultimately it's a cool feature I
appreciate it because it's like like the
thing is it makes sure like basically
now you can actually like with with the
Asus boards you can go into CPU Z and
you can look at the CPU Z voltage
reading and it's not wrong because
without this it's wrong because it's
measuring on the back of the socket and
yeah that's not great also this is one
of the boards that has the the little
tantalum capacitors jammed into the
socket or they might be SMD polymers
like either way they have like bolt like
you know some form of molded polymer
capacitor in in the in the socket
because you can get them both in
aluminum you can also get the I'll
actually I'm not sure that package size
is available in aluminum but yeah you
can get tantalum Xand aluminum's in that
style of packaging and so it's kind of
neat that they have those jammed into
the socket and apparently they also have
them on the back oh and this is rated
for 4800 so I'm going to assume this is
on an eighth layer PCB because otherwise
it would probably do the same 4600 that
everything else does yeah 4800 so I'm
gonna assume this is an eighth layer so
yeah this this is honestly like I like
this formula as much as I didn't like
some of the past formulas I do like this
one this is you know you've got 10 gig
you've got your two and a half gigs so
you've got really nice networking you've
got all of the overclocking features
like the the VRM waterblock is dumb but
that's always dumb and you know at least
they're not charging like not like it's
$500 I can I can kind of accept that I
guess
oh also there isn't that Center thing
like an OLED screen like the the formula
part right there either way I don't care
about that so yeah I think this is this
is actually like compared to its
predecessor this is a really cool
formula like compared to say the X 570
formula or the
z3 90 formula I really like this
especially compared to the z3 90 formula
I really really like what they've done
with this one not gonna test it though
switch to to have expensive but I do do
like what they're doing with it like
this this is what a this is what a
freaking formula board should be about
like I mean I don't care for the
waterblock but that they've the the
thing is like the VR and water blocks on
a formula boards have been like I think
they did it on like a Maximus or
crosshair like it's a really old feature
that they've been doing so it's like
part of just getting the formula like I
can understand having the water block
for heritage reasons okay even if it
doesn't functionally achieve anything or
at least like it'll still make your VR
run cooler it's just like every arm
probably doesn't need to run any cooler
considering what it's made of anyway so
next we have the yeah c4 90 creator 10g
this thing is cool for the same reason
that the formula is cool except it's
cooler cuz it's cheaper three hundred
dollars and you get ten gig I'm pretty
sure this is the cheapest way to get ten
gig unfortunately it's also the only
networking this board comes with this oh
that's the one downside is if you wanted
wait what Asus what the hell happened to
your website why can't I go to the
gallery there we go
so I guess they have Thunderbolt as well
you know you have your like that I wish
there was dual line on this but you know
like I assume if you're buying the board
for 10 G then you're buying it or to use
the bloody 10 G also what's this that
looks like another way wait a minute
isn't that a 10 G card and the board
itself has a two and a half gig let's go
through the overview let's look like a
cool board and I'm assuming this this
actually looks like the same erm that
they have like on the dash yes that does
look like the same vrm that they have on
the dash e so I kind of say like I'm not
getting it well does it wait do they
keep the postcode no there's no postcode
this still had the postcode I would be
like I'm not sure why you would get the
dash e instead of this I guess this also
doesn't have some of
something like miles flashback yeah so
the guy's Thunderball it has the ten -
and oh so on board is two and a half gig
and then they have a 10 gig add-in card
I'm not a fan of having 10 gig as an
add-in card like I think it's cuz the
thing is like I'd assumed you were like
if you're like a lot of people that buy
I guess sort of like I'm the thing is I
don't build real workstations but I've
talked to people who build real
workstations and they love having PCIe
slots for activities and having a 10 gig
card that is a PCIe card means you now
have one less PCIe slot for activities
so that would make that I would assume
that doesn't make them particularly
happy at the same time this is a $300
board with a with 10 gig even if the 10
gig implementation is and you know like
even if it is going to take up a PCIe
slot like it has 10 gig like just the
fact that there's 10 gig at all is a win
so that makes this board really really
cool in terms of the VR I mean heatsink
like a lot of people might say oh that
looks really like industrial and it's
like well sure but it doesn't actually
look like it has that much surface area
like honestly I think they could have
kept the ROG heat sinks though it's
really hard to judge like the the thing
is they've done like they've gone out of
their way to make that heatsink not look
like a heatsink good my opinion
they've gone really far to try and make
it look like a like a black block so
it's yeah like I'm not gonna judge it
too hard at the same time the VR I'm
under under that heatsink should be you
know plenty powerful so I want to be too
worried about this yeah this looks like
a very very capable board right they
have only 1/8 pin on this I guess they
really don't don't intend for you to
overclock on it but okay that is
actually like a pro like that I do
consider an issue it is a solid pain
power 10 pin I mean 8 pin but the thing
is like the other consideration as you
get closer to the power maximum power
handling capacity of a power connector
one of the other concerns you run into
is that let's say you put the power
connect like let's say you don't plug in
the power connector properly or there's
corrosion on on something somewhere
right or or like I don't know it's
really dusty and the dust gets in the
way of making contact
now the power handling capacity of that
power connector is lower than what it's
actually rated for so you kind of want
to have some overhead you know
especially if you're gonna be doing like
long renders or something at the same
time like I don't if you're building a
rendering workstation it's ten 900k
doesn't really make any sense for that
so I guess it's a it's a reasonable
decision not to bother with having like
the thing is though the vom could
totally do if they added an extra four
pin like the vrm could do it if there
was an extra four pin and also with how
their power plane is laid out I wonder
if we can get a better photo of this oh
there we go like so okay I can kind of
see how you might not have enough space
to get an extra four pin over there cuz
there's like a standoff like there's
this the whole the standoff hole is
right there but I like their power plane
goes along like this they could have
stuck a forward pin up in this area
right like where this MOSFET is they
could have stuck a four pin there before
the MOSFET like shifted the capacitor
over or shifted the capacitor to the to
the right and then jammed a four pin in
between the two they would have also
probably needed another input filtering
inductor but there they could I'm pretty
sure they could have found the space for
that the funny thing is if you look at
ITX boards they don't actually have
input filtering inductors at all like
there's just not enough space on those
PCBs to bake to have input filters for V
core so they just don't bother like the
you have capacitors but they don't have
the inductors for it which I don't think
that does that much because like if you
look at a lot of low-end boards they
also don't bother with with input
filtering inductors it's like one of the
the things that gets very quickly remove
it is like input filtering for twelve
volts
I guess though that may be like you
might have it might make it more like
easier for the CPU to trip
CP on your power supply if you're a
really borderline in terms of your power
delivery but uh yeah like the so the ten
giggle this is really cool I really wish
it had more power connectors because
10900 K's are thirsty thirsty CPUs but
at the same time I totally understand
that you know like it's not meant for
overclockers you know and and people who
like right like I'm not this
motherboards target audience so it's
really hard for me to judge it
you know accurate like judge it in a
realistic scenario because I would
totally run a 5.1 gigahertz nine ten
nine hundred K on or or a five-plus
gigahertz ten nine hundred K on on a
workstation you know that again I'd
assume most professionals wouldn't so
yeah but cool feature set and at a very
like the ten G at three hundred dollars
is actually really competitive so I'm
like that's one of the board's that
impresses me it's not a board I would
necessarily took like I I'm not gonna
test that board because it's not within
sort of my comprehension of what a
motherboard is supposed to do if that
makes sense let's move on Z 490 - a oh
boy we're at an hour already and this is
like a z4 90 - a ROG but without the ROG
branding yep that's that's exactly what
it is different we RM heatsinks these
still look like they have plenty of
surface area like I see no issues here
so say memory overclocking I'm gonna
assume oh no they're they're not saying
now 4600 yes so this is like a - a but
not a - a right Suzy 490 - a this is
slightly cheaper so what did they change
alright that's that's always the
question with the asus board so what
what happened that this gets to be
cheaper oh I guess they removed the vile
stuff like flashback or something yeah
so the - H get smile flashback this
doesn't of course this doesn't okay well
that's not surprising I guess it gets
more USB ports or something as
compensation yeah that is what it gets
so some extra USB ports but you lose the
BIOS flashback capability
an SOC heatsink the hell there's no SOC
vrm on z4 90 like that's not an Intel
thing we have power stages we have a +4
pin power connector ya see the like this
is just a solid board this is like a - a
but without the ROG stuff so which makes
sense right like it's literally called
the z4 90-84 90 - a gaming and there's
not really much wait a minute
I just noticed something let's just go
to new eggs website since I'm already
here oh that's just like some fan header
indicator thing so yeah this adds BIOS
flashback functionality to the USB port
let's set up so to the rear i/o so
that's that's all it really does that's
neat
so okay - I'm moving on apex oh boy this
is this is the most like this is the
board I'm most excited for this thing's
so cool so so very cool so 16 power
stages like monster you know I'm gonna
assume it's another seven plus one phase
on straw city actually no no no no no
they ditched the IGP you didn't they
there's no display outputs on this yeah
they ditched the I GPU so this is all
eight phases just Hervey core and the
cool thing about doing that is it also
like gives you the freedom if you have a
motherboard with an eye GPU phase
essentially you need to have some way to
get that power from that eye GPU phase
to the CPU socket which means you need
to have an eye GPU power plane but if
you ditch the eye GPU phase you can just
kind of go where the you you can have a
much different power plane layout which
I have a suspicion that actually has
some benefits for transient response so
this is one of the main reasons like
that's why I'm so annoyed that I didn't
get to test the Maximus 11 apex because
that one actually has no IG PU vrm and
it's just like I wonder how much that
data for transient response so I'm
really like I really want to test this
because yeah the this like this just
looks like an absolute beast in terms of
so many things like the power delivery
which it is only on the 70 M smart power
stages but I did mention earlier like 70
M smart powers
I am smarter our stages don't really
have that much of a difference between
them in terms of efficiency you're not
gonna max out a 1670 empower stage
you've erm you're not gonna max out a 16
power stage 90 amp you know the 1690 amp
our stage is either like it's like
there's there's no functional I like the
the difference between them is no not
really practical
so yeah I'm super excited for this board
and then of course we got the Dyson's
which I already talked about that you
know that's pretty neat this I assume
still has that terrible graphic of
course it's okay like that but this is a
beast of a board I will say the the
weird cutout with the SATA ports being
all funky I am NOT a fan of that that
just like why just just make the board
square like most of its square anyways
right like this cutout over here is like
like you've taken off like hat like five
millimeters maybe to get that and it's
just like what does it do nothing but uh
yeah the thing is is just and I don't
think they mention it anywhere really do
they wait let's see cooling no Q code
yeah they do not talk about just the
amazing
lnto features they have like the are SVD
switches if you're if you don't want to
learn your voltages are SVD switches are
super cool also the memory power
delivery on this thing is there is so
many capacitors in the memory power
delivery on the illness board and they I
think the Z 390 gene is kind of the same
situation so yeah the memory power
delivery on this thing looks insane I
like this is a board that I so so wanna
test like I have to have one of these oh
they do mention saying overclockers
toolkits so you have Q LEDs so you've
got your post code you've got your Ln
two mode you've got your slow mode
switch your pause switch this is a this
is cool for like you can stop a
benchmark like if you're running a 3d
mark or something you can stall out the
benchmark min on a loading screen and if
you have an OC panel you can tweak a
bunch of over
like you can tweak a bunch of settings
then unpause and now it'll be running
the same thing with different settings
so you could run like if you're running
like Vantage or something you could run
the graphics tests at a higher CPU
frequency than the physics test because
the physics test advantage like is it
really heavy so yeah that this this is
cool though I wonder if they're gonna be
shipping it with an OC panel like I
actually liked the OC panel I know most
of the most of the coverage of OCP like
the ROG OC panels in from other
youtubers has been oh this is like a
stupid gimmick I like it I really really
like it is a really cool feature then of
course we have the retry button yeah
hard like great for memory training
great for recovering when you crash the
CPU so hard that the reset button
doesn't work anymore safe boot button
best button ever created best button to
ever be put on a motherboard though it
is worth noting MSI actually offers a
similar functionality on some of their
lower-cost boards as well so I'm not
sure I don't think this is the only
board with safe boot from Asus but well
actually even if it was on the hero of
the heroes $400 so you know you can
still be paying $400 so I like I think
there might be some other cheat like
boards that are cheaper with similar
functionality to safe boot and those
would be really cool to get actually I
think the e bjz 490 FTW has a safe move
button and I'm not sure how much that'll
cost but if it costs less than this then
well there's more to it than having a
safe move button right like having a
safe boot busting is great having good
memory overclocking support in the first
place is better right this is one of
those things is like after you already
have a great board one of the ways you
can make it greater is out of safe boot
button then we have the voltage read
points which are hooked up to the
Dyson's which is quote well the V cores
hooked up to the Dyson's which is cool
full speed mode switch what does that do
for LEDs to wear eight wears eight hey
four LEDs current boot stick I am very
confused by all switch so it has dual
BIOS which i i've already you know
shared my thoughts on how much i like do
a whilst plenty in the past so yeah i
of this frickin board I must have this
frickin board there is nothing nothing
is gonna stop me from owning one of
these except maybe if well let's just
leave it at nothing I'm gonna have one
of these because it is such a cool board
oh and for for Windows XP support
because there's a bunch of like old
benchmarks that are like people are very
like that I'm not competitive and
SuperPi okay like I I think I respect
massively the people who are competitive
in SuperPi 32 million I am NOT
competitive in SuperPi installing
Windows XP to run and actually I think W
prime like there's a couple benchmarks
that basically just run way faster on
Windows XP then they run on any other
operating system that's legal for
benchmarking like I don't know maybe you
could get Linux to run it faster but
Linux isn't legal because like I don't
make the rules
but for competitive overclocking Windows
XP is and for Windows XP support having
the PS slot ps2 ports you know makes
that a lot easier because normally like
the biggest issue is the USB like
getting USB drivers that work for
Windows XP with modern motherboards is
like nope that's apparently a really
massive hassle so yeah the workaround
just have ps2 ports for that so this is
a board that is just so so very cool
that I like I really really want one of
these and I'm really glad that like it's
it's it's the same price as the hero
right like which I expected because this
board like it's not a nail our PCB it's
a six-layer it's not on the 90 empower
stages is on the 70s because the 90s
don't actually really do much of
anything at least within you know well
for really high power consumption the
90s actually have an advantage but in
the sort of power draw ranges where
you'll be seeing a 10 900k they don't do
anything
so yeah this this board I'm super
excited for I'm super super excited for
this board
anyway moving on we've got the twelve
here oh I need to check the time 11
o'clock that's fine
so does this have safe food of course
does does this have a safe book right
like what else would you be interested
in 46 66 so I guess this is on a wait so
is this like a mid step memory layout
oh no this hasn't better memory power
delivery so I guess they're like okay so
I guess the 66 megahertz more from
better power delivery than in better
memory topology which is what you get
with the formula you get 4,800 by not
having unnecessary DIMM slots the apex
can do five thousand on a six layer PCB
like yeah this is so so the hero like
the thing is VRMs way up there again
this is I do believe a fourteen plus two
which is fine because the sixteen like
you know if you want to have working
quick sync you need an eye GPU vrm
there's not really anything you can do
about that
I assume this still has the die sense
please have the die sense why do I not
see mention of the die oh there it is
yeah so accurate voltage monitoring so
this is really cool yeah like here's the
thing for Z 490 like we're in the same
situation as X 570 I feel like around
the 400 price around the $400 price tag
where it's like you have the like the
hero you have the master you have the
ACE from MSI and it's just like these
are all very solid motherboards and they
all cost about the same so go and pick
your own poison
yeah like because the thing is I'm not
actually gonna test all three of them I
have a master but there's just like I
have no interest in going out and buying
a hero to test it but looking at looking
at the hero I I just don't see any issue
anything wrong with this board so I like
if you buy one of these I'd be very
surprised if you were disappointed and I
don't think you need a $400 board like
there as I've mentioned like there's
some very solid options all the way down
to around like $200 right
but if you want lots of features I wish
we had a gallery for this one like this
is stacked in the rear i/o I wonder if a
new mic maybe has better pictures like
cuz this is I do believe it has dual LAN
which of course is nice to have yeah so
we well you can just well
can you know you can't really tell so
and why don't why can't we see the rear
i/o like you think they want to show
that off right yeah but there's no
gallery page for the board unfortunately
but heroes definitely like that looks
really solid this makes the like I think
going from the like so Z 490 compared to
like all the Z 490 motherboards compared
to theirs III 90% predecessors there's a
lot of big upgrades but I think the
biggest upgrade is going from them like
in terms of the motherboard the biggest
difference is the Maximus 11 hero versus
the Maximus 12 hero this thing it's just
so much better mainly in the power
delivery I don't think like the features
actually I think it's also got a update
with this but I'm just I don't remember
the feature set of the Z 390 board at
all because I was like well I didn't
like the Z 391 very much but yeah this
this is a this is a cool board and now
we have the Maximus 12 extreme weight so
that's interesting here these claim 4700
whereas I'm pretty sure on the formula
they claimed 4,800 how does that work
because the because I have assumed these
both use the same topology 4,800 4,800
oh I guess they're there front page is
just behind their specs page okay well
whatever so this has 10 gig
two-and-a-half gig of course you know
unfortunately no guy
Larry Page this has the same power
delivery for the memory as the apex with
the ridiculous
configuration of aluminum polymer
capacitors which yeah you can see all of
those rectangles over there I think
actually the formula might have that too
it's actually you can't see it because I
have a stupid plastic shield over it
that's actually really disappointing
yeah we can't see the memory v-power
delivery on this actually I don't think
they have enough space for it cuz like
those those cap state well I guess they
could be on the back like you could put
them on the back at the same time having
to go through vias I'm not sure how that
would affect their effectiveness but
yeah anyway so the power delivery for
the memory on this is basically like
it's the same power delivery you get on
the apex except now it's powering four
dimm slots instead of two so there's
obviously a you know a bit of a loss
because you're going from two DIMM slots
to four but they've compensated for that
with you know the higher layer account
then I think this is on 90 amp smart
power stages like this is a very very
nice board and I actually liked even the
Z 390 extreme quite a bit like that was
one of those boards where I was like I
wish I had a chance to test it because
yeah it's just like if you actually want
higher memory capacity support this this
is you know this is it this is the best
thing you can get from Asus for four
dimm for with four dimm slots now also
it has an absolutely ridiculous price
tag right we can't forget that that is a
seven hundred and fifty dollar
motherboard but this is the thing I feel
like there's a lot of really expensive Z
490 boards and it's just like but they
are really nice like they're really nice
and I wouldn't like you don't need one
of these like complete like as much as I
love what they've done with the board I
am not saying you should buy one of
these I think most people should be
buying something like the dash G or the
TUF or the - a
or like you know I think most people
should be buying sub $300 motherboards
up to you know the dashi because the
dashi adds a postcode and postcodes are
very nice to have and then once you
start going above that it's like you
know like the the hero I don't know like
I feel like if you're really into
overclocking the hero doesn't do that
like the hero isn't that much of a step
up from something like the - II well I
guess you get the die science and I
think it has like the rear i/o on this
is better so like I am Not sure but like
basically there's a lot like there's not
really any motherboards that I can point
to and go like oh this is a massive
disappointment because there there isn't
one I mean these are you know if you're
running the six core or it ain't core I
mean eight cores gonna be you're gonna
fort have to run some air flow but six
core they're gonna be fine and then once
you go above that you just get you know
steadily like nicer boards and they're
all very very nice to start with right
so yeah I'm gonna test like that's why
I'm interested in testing the dash G and
the apex and I think what they've done
with the formula for Z 490 is really
cool what they've done with the extreme
is really cool but those are also 500
and $750 boards and there's just no way
I'm buying those to test them right like
that that's the main thing is I do
actually have to buy Asus boards which
means I won't get to like like I'd
really like to test a like 4 by 8 memory
overclock on this because this is a like
because I I assume well yeah I like to
test like 4 by 8 on this because that I
think would be interesting to see where
it goes at the same time four by eight
like four by eight well the thing is is
just like this board is like the so the
problem I'm having is the the extreme
ads also a lot of the extreme
overclocking features that you get on
the apex you like I think you get some
of the are SVD switches
[Music]
no wait they do show the rear i oh yeah
so this has ten gig and two and a half
gig no Thunderbolt though really I would
have expected it at this kind of price
tag but well whatever I don't really
care that much trying to find if they
ever mention
because they have all of the like you
can see it over here right you have the
voltage read points power button reset I
mean flex key Boston which I assume is
like a rebind double reset button
I hope this also has dual BIOS yeah
there's there's a bio switch down there
if this looks like they basically took
an apex stretched it out added two
layers and added two DIMM slots and then
replace the power stages that's what
this looks like and of course I like
that because I like the apex oh and then
it has a bajillion fan headers as well I
guess that's that's another thing that
they've done with this board yeah like
so this this is an interesting board it
also has the little extra capacitors in
the socket and on the back of the sulky
I've actually gotten a picture of the
back of an apex at this point so yeah
there's like I I'm this is why I'm so
excited for Z 490 we're just seeing some
really really sick boards unfortunately
they're also at really like insane
prices but you know like the thing is is
like with the flagship motherboards I
feel like well these aren't really meant
for most people you don't need an
extreme as cool as I think it is you
know you're not gonna it's not gonna be
a game-changing difference if you go
with the dash G instead or a - a well
yeah it's not gonna be like a
game-changing difference the extreme
would be interesting like I'd like to
see what the extreme can do with four
dims on Ellen 2 like that that's the
main interest I'd have in it cuz that's
because if you're gonna go for two dims
the apex is gonna write and write a lot
like it's gonna just run circles around
it because if you don't have the extra
DIMM slots that's just such a massive
advantage but yeah other than that is
really really cool board and then even
like the formula I think is a cool board
so yeah
so whereas rock was just like one
steadily increasing disappointment what
I did the just you know walking through
their boards asus has me really really
impressed basically from $200 up there's
there's motherboards that are are good
and then they just keep getting better
and better as soon as you like like for
normal people you know ten nine hundred
K stick it in and dashi if you want the
postcode if you don't want the postcode
you can just kind of stick it in
anything that has enough USB ports or
enough flat SATA like whatever it is
you're looking for right like you might
need USB ports you might need networking
you have plenty of options and those
options get as cheap as two hundred
dollars they go as get as expensive as
three hundred dollars and then if you're
really like overclocking then you've got
your heroes your apex is your formulas I
feel like if I was going for a four dimm
asus motherboard I'd actually go for the
formula instead of the hero just because
this does seem to have a extra like this
has a different memory layout so you
know yeah for that reason alone I would
go like I've like I'm pretty sure that's
an eighth layer PCB so for that reason
alone I would go from the hero to the to
the formula unless like I just want to
make sure cuz I'm pretty like I just
want to make absolutely certain I'm not
wrong about that because we did notice
with the extreme that the extreme is
front page was like oh 4700 and then you
go to the specs and it says 4,800 I
don't know if they did that for oh they
also do 4,800 wait a minute now I need
to check more of them so actually the
hero is also solid so the formula if you
want the 10 gig of the hero if you just
want the best for demo overclocking that
asus has to offer I guess like I wish
they would just say how many layers they
have ya know they doesn't say cuz they
were just make it so much easier to
track which memory setup you have on
which boards right like I don't really
consider like I wouldn't compare a six
layer gigabyte to a six layer asus
because that's you don't know you just
don't know maybe or I wouldn't compare a
six layer as well like I wouldn't
compare layer counts between board
vendors but within a board vendors own
product stack that's a pretty good way
to track which motherboards share memory
designs right and and so it's useful for
that so I also I don't get why the front
page is like 4666 are they sandbagging
the front page for their motherboards so
that they like get people to buy upwards
like the spec safe
4,800 for both of them and I know for a
fact that with like a good like for Z
490 4,800 with a good daisy chain and
the right memory K it's very very doable
so I don't find these unrealistic memory
speeds whatsoever but yeah the one thing
the the the hero does lack that the
formula adds is the little in socket
capacitors the hero doesn't have those
and then of course it lacks the 10 G's
but yeah basically like if you're if
you're into overclocking but you also
need 32 gigs of ram Hiro is sort of a
sis's solution for you if you're into
overclocking and don't need 32 gigs of
ram then you can go get an apex so the
main reason I say don't need 32 gigs of
ram in somebody's like but you can
totally run to 16 Giga dims on the apex
I have very like I am with the extreme
overclocking boards I have like I the
the thing is it's not even the extreme
overclocking boards the problem is 16
gig games are rare so the BIOS is don't
necessarily work that well with 16 gig
games even though there's not anything
inherently wrong with a 16 gig game as
far as I'm aware at least the problem is
like the motherboards don't know what to
do with them and so when you stick a 16
gig game into a motherboard a lot of the
time it'll actually clock worse than you
know eight four dims of eight gigs
because the board like sure four four by
eight on a daisy chain is an optimal
from the way the memory layout goes but
at least the BIOS knows how to work with
that whereas if you have two 16 gig
Dame's the BIOS is gonna go like well I
have no idea what I'm doing and it's not
gonna post higher frequencies so like
that's kind of the the thing is like 4
by 8 is common compared to four bytes
compared to 2 by 16 and so 2 by 16 is
kind of sketchy in terms of memory
support even though in like it shouldn't
really have a problem and if you have a
motherboard that works well
16 Giga dims or have a set of 16 gig
games that work well with your
motherboard because that's the other
thing is there's you know variations of
the 16 gig dim design depending on which
vendor you're looking which vendors
memory sticks you're using like if like
basically with 16 gig dims like it's
really hard to get them matched up well
with the boards with 8 gig games they
there's still a lot of variety but
they're so much more common that the
board vendors seem to actually optimize
for a larger variety of 8 gig games than
for you know 16 Giga dims so yeah so
yeah I overall really like the the Z 490
asus motherboard lineup it's uh it's fun
I mean it's really expensive at the tall
pine but I think you know because the
Maximus 11 hero I think was like three
hundred to two hundred and fifty dollars
and and this like the Maximus 11 hero
and a lot of like shares a lot of its
design with with the - P down here
whereas this doesn't ok like this is
this is a like especially like a power
delivery on the hero is far more similar
to what you get on the dash P than it is
to what you get on the 12 hero so yeah I
think the you know $100 more for a hero
that now has just like four times as
much yeah I pretty much for title is it
yeah because you have better power
stages more power stages so basically
four times like three to four times as
much power delivery and you know like
also you have to factor in that I'll
assume the board is still designed like
Asus doesn't advertise it like some of
the other vendors but I assume the board
is designed with PC like - there's a
PCIe 4.0 specs and that means like
because this board has that first 16x
law and then the second 16x law it's now
like now you have a have to have to have
a set of expensive PCI you 4.0 switches
and an expensive set of PCI you 4.0 re
drivers and then you also have to have a
PCI you four
spec PCB which is more expensive than a
pcie 3.0 spec PCB and you know so it's
like so that that costs more then of
course two-and-a-half keaghlan versus
one gig was standard on xiii 9d even at
$300 yeah i think most of the boards
were on one gig and actually this has a
five gig and a one gig right or no it
just has a no it has second line so it
has dual line it has five gig in one gig
like you know like I
I consider this reasonable well okay not
reasonable but justifiable we're
actually like I don't know it like I
guess it depends how long you plan to
keep your motherboard but I'd like do
you really think a 10 900k is gonna
become irrelevant to any time soon
all right I know some people might be
like but now that eight cores are taking
over and like I think the like I think
there's a chance that the eight core is
kind of the sweet spot right now for CPU
design in terms of size right like we've
been stuck on quad cores for a very long
time and you know AMD tried to not do
quad cores early on remember the FX
series that was like AMD trying to go
like oh yeah we can do a course for
cheap and then it was like well no you
can't your course suck and and so I
think there's a good chance that you
know we might be stuck on or it's not
really stuck like we'll just be seeing a
lot of sort of eight core being optimal
for a while now so if you have a ten
core it's just like well it's not going
to be irrelevant next year I'd be very
surprised if it was so you know and then
the other thing is like like you don't
need upgrades every year right like yeah
if you're if you're gonna buy a new
motherboard every year than buying a
$400 board and then another $400 board
is less cost effective than buying a
$200 board at the same time if you buy
your $400 board and then don't change
motherboards for the next five years or
something then you might want to start
with a really nice board so you know you
have as many USB like it may be right
now you don't use that much USB but in
the future you might and then it's like
oh now I need a different
well you know like that's the thing is
like you don't need to upgrade every
time Intel changes of the socket because
new flash Intel would sooner like Intel
would rather go bankrupt and stop
changing sockets every two generations
right so yeah anyway I think these are
cool boards I think Asus with their z4
name other words they have some very
impressive boards and yeah that's that's
it for this video so thanks for watching
like share subscribe leave any comments
questions suggestions down in the
comment section and if you'd like to
support what I do here with actually
hardcore overclocking I have a patreon
where you can support me there's a link
to that down in the description below
that will you know make my life easier
when it comes to buying the various ASUS
motherboards who knows maybe if enough
people use the patreon I'll buy an
extreme but I kinda doubt that all
that'll happen because that's a $750
board so you know it's just like yeah
that's probably not very likely but I
yeah so there's a patreon there's a link
to that down in the description and then
there's also the hoc teespring store
which achieves exactly the same thing as
the patreon does except you also get
like a shirt or stickers or post or
whatever in return because teespring is
for for youtuber merch so yeah you can
check out the link for that down in the
description below as well and that is it
for the video so thank you for watching
and good bye
[Music]
I'm your diffic guru intel is launching
its 10th gen desktop platform which is
called comet Lake s and along with that
we have the Zed for 90 chipset I've got
eight motherboards here that support the
Zed for 90 you should be able to put
your order in for them in about a week's
time this is a preview I do not have any
CPUs yet the reviews are going to go
live in about three weeks time another
aspect of the fact this is a preview is
that I don't have prices they won't be
available until the boards are available
for order but I can make a fairly good
guess at the prices I've got something
like 4,000 pounds of motherboards here
would you believe they're quite
expensive so let's take them one by one
and see what Intel's bringing to the
party we're going to start with the
Azusa Robb Maximus 12 hero Wi-Fi partly
because of Zeus Annie sent us a single
board for this preview and also if we
run out of abetik Li this is first
denied it makes perfect sense also only
have previously reviewed the Maximus 11
formula with Zed 390 chipset and look at
the packaging they're the same aren't
they but the board's these are 390
version the Zed 490 goodness me they're
very different
the Zed 390 has an e k WB hybrid block
on the VRMs and the cooling is a
significant part of that board the VR
owns themselves they're okay in the case
of the zip 490 version the Maximus 12
the prm's they're built like a tank it's
worth noting the vrm heatsink is not the
usual L shape it is AC shape it extends
around above the graphics slot let's
just take off this armor PCI Express
support we said 490 is the same as their
390 so we have two graphics slots it's
worth mentioning the support both SLI
and crossfire you'll find many there 490
boards that have door slots but do not
support SLI and we have three m2s four
loads of storage there we have a heat
think on the chipset moving up the ball
the 4 memory slots support up to 128
gigabytes of ddr4 4700 I cants here's
testing that in a hurry and then we have
the V RMS and off with the heatsink
great big slabs of metal however it does
have a decent amount of surface area and
we have a flat heat pipe connecting the
three together here we have the main
power delivery these components would
usually go in this location here azusa
seen fit to move them away from the
memory the vrm controller is the azuz
logo at ASP one 405 one which we believe
is an IR 35 201 that is an eight phase--
v RM controller so the 16 phases here
are actually more like a seven plus one
except they're 14 plus 2 the stages are
by Infineon they're rated at 60 amps
apiece so we're talking a hefty amount
of power delivery for the CPU on the i/o
we have a good selection of ports and
connectors including slightly surprising
the HDMI bearing in mind most Intel CPUs
are actually ApS we've got regular USB 2
we've got USB 3 we've got USB 3.1 in my
book or 3.2 Gen 2 if you must
we've got type C we have a pair of
Ethernet the Ethernet one is Intel
gigabit one is Marvell five gigabit
Wi-Fi is Wi-Fi six or a X where you
might have expected to pay 300 pounds or
slightly more for the Maximus 11 with
Zed 390 chipset we reckon this is from
about a hundred pounds more apart from
that it's new and it's shiny and we're
quite confident Intel's going to charge
a premium for Zed 490 as this has
whacked in a load of extra hardware the
ethernet had a raise in its game so -
the Wi-Fi is 6 but it's the V RMS they
must be costing a pretty penny obviously
we can't test the board at the moment we
don't many CPUs and if I did test it I
couldn't tell you about it not for about
another three weeks nonetheless this
board is going to be on my list
to review and it looks really
interesting the first VAT gigabyte
motherboards is the z4 90 Horus master
gram black color scheme looks very x4
seventy it's got a back plate on the
back plate we are advised to dominate in
darkness whatever that might mean it
looks familiar it has to be said the box
has some interesting claims we have 90
amp power stages we have support for PCI
Express for this is Intel there's no
expectation 10th gen Intel's going to
support PCI Express for storage the 11th
gen may well so gigabyte appears to be
telling us to buy this board to support
the processor coming presumably next
year 2021
pricing we're expecting this board to be
priced just under 400 pounds so the
azouz is probably 400 to 450 call it 4
to 5 this under 400 call it 375 in case
gigabytes point is not crystal clear the
thinking is that 10th Gen Intel comet
Lake s uses the new LJ 1200 socket the
11th gen order Lake is also expected to
use these same LGA 1212 gen is expected
to leap up to LGA 1700 m dot two's to
your heart's content and remove that
backplate the backplate has heat
transfer pads that go over these
components here on the back of the V RMS
in the IO shroud we clearly have some
sort of lighting going on there's the
strip there so presumably it's going to
illuminate the logo plate and now we can
see the vrm heatsink big orange heat
transfer pads heavily finding loads a
surface air a really good for heat
transfer and the V RMS themselves
intriguing thing here is that the vrm
controller is an is l69 269 by the look
of it we've got fourteen ninety amp hour
stages
looking at the doubling scheme you have
to assume the controller handles eight
phases so seven doubled plus the one
that's a lot of juice on the i/o panel
we've got micro buttons for clear CMOS
and for flashing the bias Wi-Fi 6 or
Wi-Fi a X if you prefer loads of USB to
HDMI output USB 3 USB 3.1 gen2 and a
type C's we've got for those in total
the ethernet is Intel two-and-a-half
gigabit gigabytes move to ISL VRMs looks
like a brute-force move loads of am page
loads of components if you can keep the
price the same that's pure speculation
on our part but we understand that
wouldn't have cost gigabyte much if
anything to have changed from
international rectifier and to step up
to these much higher rated components
until we can benchmark it we can't be
sure however that feels like it should
be a very good choice by gigabyte based
on their X 470 and X 570 boards I'm
feeling confident about this the rest of
the board it's good solid staff loads of
usb on the i/o panel very few bells and
whistles it's basically down to thermals
including that hefty great big backplate
we're expecting the gigabyte z4 90 horas
pro ax to cost around the 300 pound mark
in the context Oh haven't healed of that
strip there we go team up fight on in
the context of Zed 490 boards this is
relatively speaking a cheap one in the
context of Zed 390 boards fairly
expensive if I haven't already said to
my mind Intel's gonna be charging a
hefty premium for Zed 490 the headline
features apart from the obvious LJ 1200
and support for Intel 10th gen is the
alleged PCI Express for storage slot
with this slightly peculiar sticker
limited functionality check manual
basically forget about it for 10th gen
that's what that means the model name
pro AX refers to Wi-Fi 6 or a X those
are essentially the new parts
strip off the storage covers and it's
looking incredibly conventional dual
graphics support but realistically able
to put one graphics card in this and a
couple of em twos below the graphic
slots one above no back plate and now we
can see these the RM heat sinks in all
their glory and it's a curious thing so
along the top we've got this slab which
doesn't have a massive amount of surface
area but it does have some here we have
a thinned heatsink why one and then one
why not two of the same very curious and
with the heat sinks removed we can see
hardware that's incredibly from an air
from gigabytes Z 390 range
previously we saw 12 by 50 amp doctor
more stages here we have exactly the
same tour by 50 amp doctor more stages
perhaps the only surprise here is that
gigabyte is stuck with the is l69
269 on the rear i/o we have a mix of
features so we've got four old-school
USB twos we've got the Wi-Fi six HDMI
out we then got three each of us be 3
point 2 GM ones and gentoos of C ones
type C and we have Intel two-and-a-half
gigabit ethernet the Auris pro ax
demonstrates to my mind that 300 pounds
is when you start to get a reasonable
list of features but you're not into the
good stuff territory not by a long chalk
the input outputs the m dot 2's that's
all absolutely fine you've got the Wi-Fi
six two and a half gigabit and so on so
forth the V RMS now they're okay but
they're nothing special clearly we need
to review the board to be absolutely
certain but right now it's looking as
though 300 pounds doesn't get you a
massive amount for your money you're
gonna have to come in close for the Zed
490 I horas ultra the I stands for I TX
and its performance ITX at that you may
be surprised to learn this mini ITX
board has two m dot 2 s1 on the back of
the board in the conventional position
from in the ITX the other is under there
remove this split block there is the
second MDOT to mini-itx so you don't
have much space to work with however
gigabytes use the back plate and they've
used decent vrm heat sinks remove those
that's quite a lot of metal removing
that shroud gives you a good look at
what's going on the MDOT to slot is on
the back of the board so we've got
full-size ddr4 slots just as you'd hope
to see on a desktop board sometimes you
see sodium's on a on a mini ITX the
really surprising thing here is the VRMs
this mini ITX board sports and is l69
269 controller that controller yet again
and eight ninety amp power phases we've
never seen anything like that on a mini
ITX before quite remarkable the i/o
panel shows the different use case for
mini ITX so in the middle we've got
DisplayPort and HDMI rather than just
HDMI we've got a lot of USBs so we've
got two old skool USB twos for USB 3.2
gen ones to 3.2 gentoos one of which is
Type C until two and a half gigabit and
Wi-Fi six we think the ITX or result
sure is going to be priced north of 200
pounds are hoping it's going to be south
of 250 pounds so not cheap but a decent
way of getting a lot of hardware in are
obviously a very small package at a
decent price the V RMS on this board
really quite surprising amount of hard
way that gigabyte has packed into this
tiny little package as to how it
actually performs well I'll find out in
a few weeks time because I'm going to be
reviewing this particular model I'm
really looking forward to trying out
Intel's new comic-like S on ITX as to
whether I go over to ten cause I think I
might our fourth and final gigabyte
board is the Zed 4 90 horas extreme
water force I did a build with the Zed
390 water force and it is just
completely over the tops you know we're
describing it pricing I I frankly
haven't got a clue this is a water force
which means it comes with this whacking
great view the monoblock versus in a
moment a version of the extreme board
the extreme board has to be North for
500 pounds pick a figure 700 pounds add
on a load of hardware
are we talking a thousand pounds we're
talking more than that I don't know I'm
gonna say we should price this by the
kilo because the waterblock is three
kilos this is one a bit Kyo's we've got
the Auris RGB commander accessory and
loads of bits and pieces in the box so
about 200 pounds of kilo the RGB
commander is as we remember it so it's
got connections for a load of RGB fans
the box also contains a mass of cables
then we have the huge mono block which
goes this way around I am NOT peeling
off the protective plastics are not
going to be reviewing this board and I
imagine now going to make very few of
them this mono block weighs in at 3
kilos and has a piece of squished
thermal compound and then we come to the
motherboard itself the funny thing is
because it's designed for that mono
block it means it's already stripped
down look at the space behind the i/o
it's quite unusual seeing that because
of course there are no vrm heat sinks
and the main news here is ISL hardware
throughout is l69 269 controller is l99
390 power stages 16 by 90 amps where the
z3 90 used 16 by 60 amps we're talking
50% more power you might be concerned
that the 3 M 2 s will vanish out of
sight once Amana blocks in place however
these parts of the block are removable
as with the x5 70 extreme the
connections are on the edge and they're
all down this side there's nothing on
the foot of the board whatsoever this is
an extraordinary form factor to look at
and I never got to play with the x5 70
Xtreme myself this is quite out of the
ordinary the rear i/o panel has got
everything q flash button clear CMOS
connection points for your Wi-Fi 6 -
Thunderbolt type C's for USB 3.2 gentoos
a couple of old-school USB twos slightly
surprised to see the
an hdmi networking consists of a quanti
attend gigabit and Intel 2.5 gigabit and
then we have a pair of USB 3.1 gen2 the
story as in the huge box of accessories
gigabyte includes this feature they cool
essential USB DAC there you have it an
audio dongle it is quite something to
see gigabyte tape the lessons I've
learned from the x5 70 extreme anisette
490 chipset take the waterfalls features
are previously seen this socking great
big water block and you end up with this
extreme is an entirely appropriate name
I imagine gigabyte is going to make and
sell very few said 490 extreme water
force motherboards blimey it's a piece
of hardware
[Music]
time for our first msi the meg said 498
again pricing uncertain I'm gonna hazard
a guess we're looking at three hundred
and fifty pounds and for that you get
quite a chunk of engineering the ace is
an understated board we pull off this
shielding here which is plastic it has
little connector so there's obviously
some lighting going on in that panel
there that's fine by us
and we pull off the vrm coolers which
are quite solid slabby things there is
some surface area but we're not talking
heavily thinned however we do have a
very small active cooler which sits just
here just above those USB ports and that
will blow air there the controller is
once again is l69 269 the stages is l99
39 0 and 90 amp stages it looks to us
like a 12 + 1 + 4 configuration which
would be 6 with a Dobler and a quadruple
ax so we have seen a similar set up from
MSI in the past but we need to obviously
check Allah as she works in operation on
the face of it that is some battleship
engineering going on there on the foot
of the board
we've got micro buttons galore this is a
highly featured board which is why I'm
hazarding a guess the pricing is going
to be north of 300 pounds on the rear we
have a mini backplate but that's
obviously for aesthetic purposes rather
than doing any cooling of the back of
the V RMS or the doublers on the i/o
panel we have a clear CMOS button a
flash bias button an old-school ps2
which should please the overclockers a
pair of USB twos we've then got two USB
3.1 Jem ones for USB 3.2 GN twos
including a Type C connections for Wi-Fi
6 and a pair of Ethernet the Ethernet
SAR unusual because it is real tech 2.5
gigabit and Intel gigabit I'll be
reviewing the ACE just as soon as in
talked coughs up some processors and I'm
going to be fascinated to see whether
the ISL vrm Zak your
active cooling or not we've got to use
cases gigabyte has used the same
Hardware passively cooled MSI's gone for
active that's going to be a back-to-back
to see the ace it's interesting one of
the cheapest boards in this roundup
possibly the cheapest is the MSI mpg z
Wi-Fi priced I'm gonna hazard a guess
two hundred and fifty or so pounds which
for Zed for ninety s sounds like it's
bargain basement go back to Zed 390 sub
200
this is a cheap motherboard you get no
prize for guessing the carbon has carbon
highlights obviously it's fake carbon
but it looks pretty enough and there is
some RGB go or illumination at the very
least going on in this panel here there
is no backplate it's just bare we have
doublers and then we remove the vrm heat
sinks which once again quite solid there
is some surface area but very little
thinning and here we have an unusual
controller it's a renaissance RA a two
to nine nine zero zero one not sure
we've seen that before it appears to be
an eight phase-- controller we have is L
stages is l99 360s once again the
arrangement appears to be six doubled so
six to twelve plus one plus one the fact
they've mixed a match controller and
stages suggests the emphasis has been on
price cutting which is entirely
reasonable as I say this is a budget
board turning to the i/o panel we've
pretty much got the bare minimum of
features so we have an old-school ps2
which is bit of a surprise to USB twos a
DisplayPort and HDMI which suggests this
PC might be connected to a TV one USB
3.2 gen2 type-c for USB 3.2 gen to type
a s
so that's quite a decent setup in terms
of USB Ethernet is real tech 2.5 gigabit
and then we've got Wi-Fi 6 the thing
about the gaming carbon is that this is
the MSI that MSI wants me to review on
the other hand having seen that ace
really want to review the ACE but the
fact they want me to review the game
in carbon that says to me the msi
expects this board to shift by the
truckload
probably realistically in conjunction
with core i5 maybe core i7 or through
that's what people typically buy they
don't go out and buy the ten core for
loads of money they go down the stack
this is probably the sensible choice
when you're buying a Zed for 19
motherboard we've saved the z4 90
god-like for last this is the
motherboard that videocards was recently
ruling was going to be 99 9 euros which
here in the UK would be you know 99
pounds we're fairly confident it's gonna
be cheaper than that but maybe not a lot
cheaper if it's around the 750 maybe
even 700 that actually makes it
relatively competitive at the high end
of Zed 490 surprisingly obviously a lot
of money but we are talking super duper
high-end hardware a quick rundown EA T X
form-factor monumental levels of
shielding over the MDOT 2s you also get
an OLED display lots of clever bells and
whistles pull off that IO shield which
obviously has a connection for more
lighting going on there and we reveal
the vrm heat sinks we've also got a heat
sink there over the 10 Gigabit Ethernet
you get a lot of accessories with this
board including some braided SATA cables
but of course you won't be using SATA
will you you'll be using MDOT to storage
naturally third slot under there as you
can see it's a solid piece of work and
then we remove the vrm heat sinks which
are fully finned just the way we like
them this is good and we have a pair of
tiny little fans that 25 millimeters
that is the heatsink for the 10 Gigabit
Ethernet the thing about these fans is
that they sit there quite how they are
supposed to do anything is a complete
puzzle to me time will tell if we ever
get to review this board and then we
come to the 16 phase V RMS so the
controller you will not be surprised to
hear is l6 9 2 6 9 and the stages is L 9
9 3 9 zeros this is clearly the new
normal for Zed 494 memory support MSI
claims beyond 5000 megahertz which is
a big number and then if you look down
the foot of the board in addition to the
various headers and connectors you'll
see we have a PCI Express power
connector to give you extra juice to
keep your graphics happy on the i/o
panel we've got a ps2 a couple of USB
2.0 's for USB 3.1 gen2 USB 3.2 gen 2 s
which include Thunderbolt on the type
C's Wi-Fi 6 and a full complement of
audio going around the board going past
the power connector you can see we've
got USB 3.2 GN to Type C for a further
front panel connection more fan headers
we've got USB 3.1 gen2
amber got a loader SATA essentially
there are headers and connectors for
absolutely everything the intriguing
thing is looking at the hardware that
the ability to actually run it at the
moment it seems that the Zed 490 godlike
isn't much of a change from the previous
god like they've changed the maker model
of the VRMs but the form factor the
features and so on they all look quite
familiar it's a super duper high-end EI
TX motherboard that's going to cost an
arm and two or three legs but it's
nothing new nonetheless it should
perform like a champ
that's my preview of these Zed 490
motherboards head over to kit guru net
to read news Matthew's done a piece
about Intel 10th gen for the desktop
I've also done a piece about these
motherboards head over to our merch
store you can buy a t-shirt if you liked
this video give it a thumbs up hit the
bell buttons subscribe I'm Mia wood for
kit guru this was the news launch of
Intel 10th gen for the desktop
[Music]
it's no secret that intel are lagging
behind AMD a little bit when it comes to
the desktop CPU market right now but
things are about to get really really
interesting we've now got the full
picture of what to expect from Intel's
tenth generation desktop CPU lineup and
without them advancing their 14
nanometer manufacturing process to say
10 nanometer or seven nanometer like AMD
they're basically throwing everything
they can at these new CPUs to improve
performance
that's from adding hyper threading
across almost the entire process of line
up to claiming boost clocks of up to
five point three gigahertz as well as an
improved thermal design so today we'll
be discussing all of that plus a little
bit more so I think first of all let's
take a quick look at the entire 10th
generation processor lineup because
there are quite a few big changes here
so Intel's flagship product here is the
eye 9/10 900k it's a 10 core 20 thread
CPU with a single core boost of up to
five point three gigahertz and then all
core of up to four point nine pricing
there has an RCP of 488 u.s. dollars but
keep in mind that our CP doesn't reflect
what the MSRP or shelf price of these
products will actually be so expect the
10900 k to be around the $500 mark once
it actually hits stores this makes it a
direct competitor to AMD's rise in 3900
X which can be had for around 550 at the
time of filming but you do get an extra
two calls and four threads there so
we'll wait and see how the benchmarks
pan out between those two but I think
it's gonna be really interesting so I
think the big number that sticks out
there is definitely 5.3 gigahertz
because 10 cores and 20 threads that's
nothing that impressive compared to what
AMD's putting out with the 3900 X and
3950 X not to mention those processors
came out quite a while ago so 5.3
gigahertz that makes it a 300 megahertz
up with from something like at 9900 K
and you know we're still working within
the 14 nanometer process so it's going
to be quite interesting to actually
validate that and you know what we can
expect in terms of overclocking across
all cause
moving down the products stack is where
things get really interesting though the
i7s now get the hype
threading back whereas Intel had removed
this previously with nitrogen to create
some product segmentation but with the
10 700 K we get an 8 core 16 thread
processor with a single core booster 5.1
and the pricing here will sit right
between the risin 3,700 X and 3800 X
making this very competitive on paper
honestly though the processor I'm most
curious about is the i5 10 600 K because
finally we have hyper threading on the
i5 S on paper this looks like a decent
competitor to the Rison 5 3600 although
pricing does have the Intel processor a
bit more expensive
also note that memory spec here it's
back down to ddr4 2666 with the i5 s and
below whereas the i7 and I nines now
have been raised through 29:33 by
default do note though that's only a
consideration for the locked non K
processors on boards other than a Z 490
moving down to even the new a3 models
again we get hyper threading across all
the processes here which is great and
these will compete directly against that
new Rison 330 130 300 X which we will be
reviewing very soon one big mistake here
though in my opinion is the fact that
there isn't any quad core processor here
with overclocking enabled because when
you're claiming that this silicon can
hit five gigahertz all call no problem I
think that's a big missed opportunity
one clear reason that until I've done
this is to sort of encourage consumers
to spend a bit more money and get an
overclockable I 5 or I 7 instead but
consumers who are looking at these
budget products might even just look in
the other direction instead and get a
rise in CPU even if most consumers
buying overclockable processors don't
even overclock them in the end
especially these sort of budget and our
CPU is like a risin three it is still a
nice to have feature to be able to
overclock if you want and I think that
definitely plays on the purchasing
decision of the consumer now seeing as
inter are still working with the 14
nanometer manufacturing process pumping
more cores and higher clock speeds into
the same silicon without improving power
efficiency like AMD has can only lead to
more power and heat so to improve the
thermal design and attempt to overcome
this again this is something that we
will test although this could just be
for i7 and I 9s a thinner CPU die and
heat spreader has been implemented we
are also working again with the solar
thermal interface material between the
two just as with ninth gen as Intel has
absolutely no business using thermal
paste at this point with 14 nanometer
also Intel have taken a page out of
AMD's books here when it comes to
selective CPU called boosting all i7 +
i9 CPUs will now be able to prioritize
the best performing CPU cores for single
and dual core workloads and now one of
the drawbacks Intel's chipset lifecycle
which typically only lasts around two
CPU generations and that means that this
time around with 10th gen processors you
will need a new 400 series motherboard
that means AZ 490 motherboard if you're
interested in overclocking one of those
K series CPUs I do have a couple of
those on hand at the moment that I'm
looking forward to testing as well as a
few more on the way
also 10th gen CPUs and the Z 490 chipset
now support 2.5 cubed Ethernet and Wi-Fi
6 for a nice little update in faster
networking and lastly there's an update
coming to Intel's XTU overclocking and
tuning software most notably with 10th
gen you will now be able to set a custom
voltage and frequency curve so pretty
advanced overclocking a lot more than
what most people will need but it's
great to see that feature now for
enthusiasts so I think this is
definitely one of the bigger rebuttals
that we've seen from Intel toward AMD
ever since the first generation rise in
CPUs launched one of the biggest reasons
that these are so popular
Rison 5 CPUs is because they're
capitalizing on the fact that the
competitor Intel Core i5 s do not have
to processing threads per core whereas
the Reisman 5 CPUs do so now that we do
have that enabled on the Intel Core i5
lineup there's finally going to be some
really solid competition there in terms
of the high-end SKUs I think the rise in
3950 X will undoubtedly still hold the
crown when it comes to multi-core
performance but I think the 3900 X + 10
910 be a pretty close match up Intel's
big focus here is clearly on clock speed
and that 5.3 gigahertz number and that's
what they're good at so it will be
interesting to see whether that is
attainable across all CPU cores with
overclocking and if so what amount of
power and voltage of that would require
there are of course advantages that AMD
still holds over Intel like being able
to overclock any of their CPUs on pretty
much any affordable motherboard as well
but we'll get into all of that in the
full review until then I'd love to hear
your thoughts and comments down below a
huge thanks for watching and I'll see
you all in the next one
hey guys Joshua and today we're
computing a look at the ROG Maximus
Ralph hero a z4 90 board for the new
command leg champion Intel CPU okay so
this the Box RG Maximus 12 hero Wi-Fi
gaming motherboard you get your Intel
chips at z4 nine zero intel core temp
Gen Intel team in the crossfire and VDSL
eye or a sink game pers and obviously
Republic of gamers so on the side just
get a name again and on the other side
just some extra things and get back so
on the back if you're buying this in a
retail store you get an overview of what
you're getting the optimum three triple
m dot two slots to ethernet robust whole
solution and all the i/o and stuff which
we'll go through a little bit later okay
now opening it up obviously on the top
the first thing you'll see is the matter
bot which we'll get to in a while
because I want to take a look at what
else is inside the box so just lift this
out be thank you for this in a very nice
little compartment box that you can just
lift out and then on the inside you can
use the guy CD and I think this is a
sticker on the inside some paperwork
little bit more speakers yep so you get
some stickers here a little bit more to
show off and then in this performing
you're getting all the other accessories
so you have a Wi-Fi antenna you have a
bunch of cables
keychain and dr. SST pads a few of them
there's a small fan here that's
interesting
bracket for the fan some screws so for
the motherboard you can see that this is
for the common lick so the new Intel
premium 10 CPUs and then from here you
can see that they've actually put in
quite a few heat sink so there's a pipe
here as you can see right there and it's
in a CG configuration and then across
the I oppose regulator which I believe
there should be another cute thing
somewhere in here for the heat
dissipation and if it isn't enough there
is an extra bracket and fan which I show
you just now while unboxing that
attaches to somewhere I think it
attaches to somewhere around the top
side here so that you get a little bit
extra ventilation okay if I'm not wrong
previously for the other heroes I think
they end up to slot what here but now
they've moved it down to here and let me
just a screw it and let's take a look on
the inside
[Music]
okay that was really quite a lot of
screws but so you see if you're getting
tree and the tool slots so two here and
another one right here
so tree all together they've actually
also ensured that this is Wi-Fi sticks
compatible so let's Putin Wi-Fi already
so just new connect the antennas if you
want more coverage and this all courtesy
of the Intel a x201
controller Intel one-to-one 9 v 4 1 Gbps
Ethernet and Marvel action EQ C 1 1 C
for the future when 5g BBS internet
hopefully it gets normalized then that
would be really very perfect for the
back panel are what you're getting a
BIOS flash back button clear CMOS button
HDMI 1.4 Peapod to Internet port for USB
3.0 gen 2 parts inclusive of the type C
port for USB 3.0 Gen 1 port two USB 2.0
port optical s/pdif out and your
gold-plated audio jacks an interesting
thing with this matter Bob is now
they've acknowledged that there are many
enthusiasts that are going into the DIY
water cooling solutions so they've added
some water cooling dedicated headers
rather than you having to go out and buy
another set of controllers so the
headers are for Florrie which is
compatible with the latest meters from
this power for now in an out temperature
headers for thermal probes and all this
info can be fed directly to the Asus AI
suite for all the reference data you
need to make necessary adjustment which
is really cool lastly the audio hardware
is the multi channel supreme effects as
1/2 to 0 with 113 DB as an hour line in
and hurry 20 DB line now so you're still
getting some really good performance now
that's been it for the unboxing and some
of the features I'm still waiting on the
Intel temp gent comet-like
chip to arrive so I can run tests on it
so look forward to that I think that I
think that the LG Maxima strophe hero
checks all the boxes for when you
actually need from a high-end
motherboard if you really know you will
be picking up a temp gen Intel CPU this
would definitely want to go to my boss
that you should actually go for and yeah
that's been there for the video
remember like and subscribe for more
tech and gaming videos hit that
notification bell to get notified when
new videos come up and I'll catch you in
the next one cows
hi everyone it is tiny Tom Logan back
with yet another Zed 490 preview for you
and now we're going to be taking a look
at the rock Strix I will get my where's
that rock Strix Zed 498 gaming now let's
remember that we are going to be looking
at what all of the board partners have
managed to do with the platform and the
ecosystem that Intel has kind of
provided and we're going to save all the
nitty-gritty and pulling apart this and
not necessarily fanboying this but you
know the reality of what's going on for
the actual CPU review and that's the way
I will do all of these boards and that's
also the way that I will do all of the
new AMD boards that are going to be
coming as well so just keep that in mind
we'll save some of the drama and
arguments and all of that sort of stuff
anyway rogue Strix Box normally come in
round the kind of mid-range for an
enthusiast board and they normally get
to about this point and then prices
rocket rather quickly upwards because
beyond this you might be looking at
something like the formula which can
sometimes be twice as much so sometimes
these can actually be quite a good place
for the average enthusiast builder to
start looking at
[Music]
you
so the rocks tricks most important thing
for us to have a look at are these bits
around the back so we can see here the
specs mainly hdmi 1.4 and DisplayPort
1.4 so that's not hates DMI - that's
something to keep an eye on but that
would be going on to the IGP you in this
cpu as well so HDMI T and there's some
arguments to be made anyway so you can
have a look at the connectors down the
back don't forget you can pause but
inside the box it's actually relatively
simple you do get your Wi-Fi antenna you
get your manual you get your driver CD
because they've not switched to these
over two USBs yet you get some stickers
as well and then the rest of it in
reality is a bit light once you can not
be an idiot like me and get out from
underneath it so you do get the extra
fan you'll see where this can go in a
moment and I will point that out for you
normal SATA cables they're not the
braided ones are seen as someone the
more expensive boards and that's
something else to keep in mind you do
get an extension cable for the
addressable and the normal four pin RGB
and you only get one of each you do get
a thermal probe should you want to place
it somewhere and you get a rather
spiffing rogue keyring okay so there are
sixteen chokes around that CPU socket
whether they are all for the motherboard
or not I don't know because I've not
received a reviewers guide for this
board yet so I don't know how they're
wired I don't know what the controller
is and I don't know you know what the
actual PWM Tsar or anything like that
now when I do do the main review I will
pull the heatsink and have a look I'm
hoping for the main of you I'll have all
that breakdown for you as well the
reason why I'm not going to pull it
apart yet is I like to review them
without me pulling them apart or doing
anything to them so I've not disturbed
anything so that if
the VRMs are too hot for example they
can't say to me it's because I've taken
it apart so it's just a case of covering
my behind and trying to make sure that
the end of you is as fair as possible
but you can see that we've got all of
the chokes around the board lots of caps
we don't know what they're necessarily
rated at it might not be the sort of
board for and ri9 with a mega overclock
we don't know until we test it but the
fact that it is not just let's for
argument's sake say this not just six or
eight chokes there it's definitely a
better sign compared to some of the
cheap ones maybe now top left-hand
corner of the board it's the first of
the board's I've seen so far that hasn't
got to eight pin so it's got an 8 and
the four so if you were pushing the big
over option might need that second four
pin added but you'd have to find out and
have a tweak and we're not really going
to know until we get down to the
nitty-gritty of pulling the board apart
and really getting it hot and stressing
out with the main review you can see
just hiding just there you have a four
pin pwm connector and when we slide
along there are another couple in the
top right-hand corner there is a post
option there and it's the CPU / vault
option I did have to have a look then
you do get a four pin RGB connector and
then an addressable RGB connector there
with its three pins when you come down
you can see the post lights obviously
they light up as it goes through each
stage of the post processing you know
what you're doing with if you have any
issues 24 pin fairly self-explanatory
front panel USB 3.1 gen2 to apologize
and I will leave it in the front panel
is a 3.2 gen to normal USB 3 vertical
there then you slide down 6 ators all
fairly fairly what we used to lay out
all of that sort of thing bottom of the
board you see you've got the front panel
connectors there then you go to your
satisfaction
I'm assuming that would be if you were
to add in like a 3d printed one or
something if you should need it because
the one in the box I thought was meant
to have gone there although I'm suppose
you could add it on the m-dot too if you
wanted to you can unscrew it and then
move it if you wanted to anyway to USB
Tuesday even also see here and then it
will thermal sensor there this one is
the clear bias clear RTC is to clear
your BIOS you can literally put a
screwdriver between those two and just
short it if you want or if you've got
any spare jumpers you put that across
another really good things if you there
are some switches that you can get there
for the power the board up and you would
normally put it on the power over here
press it start the board but if you're
overclocking a lot you can actually get
one of those switches and put it on that
and it will only clear the bias when you
press the button it will tip for you
there something about head of there
should you need it then you've got your
three pin addressable RGB four pin their
poster read out there or cue code is
they call it and then you've got some
Japanese capacitors you supreme FX what
you can see here by the way is a couple
of em two slots easily very prominent
there there are two more fan headers
here as well but then we move round to
the back of the board so the two on
board video HDMI 1.4 and DisplayPort 1.4
then you get all of your USB connectors
where on the back this is your BIOS
flash back with BIOS flash back if you
want to tip and you want to use it if
you go on the driver CD and find the
BIOS file that's on that driver CD copy
and paste that name because it's the
name that is the key for the BIOS flash
back then if you download the most
recent files that you can get from the
Asus website put on a blank USB stick
and then change the name of that BIOS
file to the one that was on the driver
CD then but the u.s. being here press
and hold this and long short of it
there's a little light that will like
there when it flashes that's when it's
reading it if it starts flashing really
fast that it doing its job it's really
that simple you just have to change that
name anyway then you get some extra USBs
so you get quite a few USBs but the most
important thing here is your USB 3.2 Gen
2 their 3.2 Gen 1 there because they're
the ACE and I'm not sure whether these
blue ones are Gen 1 or Gen to Wi-Fi 6
gold-plated pin outs for the back for
your audio and an optical out as well
one of the things I can do because of my
magic cables I've got to pretty much hot
Y the board so that we can see the RGB
or the lighting so you can see the real
glow go down over what would have been
the Southbridge and what it does show us
is that there's no lighting in this
middle section on what we would have
called way back in the day the
Northbridge but we can see that there
are some addressable RGB options as
fairly regularly now over the i/o area
at the back nothing massive to shout
about but you do obviously have those to
RGB connectors for normal RGB and then
to addressable RGB connectors as well so
there's plenty of expansion there should
you want to use it
ok so there are going to be a lot of
other previews both from Asus and other
brands both on the channel and the
website so please feel free to go and
take a look there's obviously a lot more
information on the website that you can
peek through all the specifics for more
detail than the back of the board and
also what we're going to be doing is as
things arrive like giving us more
information about the V RMS giving us
more information about all the other
little nitty-gritty things that we
haven't actually got yet because we are
at the mercy of what they send us and
because of the current climate with our
staff shortages and stuff some things
are taking a little bit longer than
normal so we will go in and hot edit the
written but I obviously can't hot edit a
video and I'm trying to get these done
to make sure I've got as much
information as I have to hand available
for you up as quickly as possible
or on or just after the 30th which is
when the image when the preview NDA is
the full cpu reviews will all be along
later after that NDA lifts as well also
can't necessarily talk to you much about
things like price or PCI Express
so obviously the Strix boards are like I
said it's a nice kind of mid-range
enthusiastic mid-range in total but
mid-range enthusiast level when you've
gone past kind of like entry level and
you actually starting to spend a little
bit money a little bit more quality get
more RGB better aesthetics that sort of
thing obviously when I know about prices
and more importantly performance whether
it can handle an i-9 whether it's more
of an i7 board whether it's a good
strong ice v i7 I strive i7 overclocking
board only time is going to tell but I'm
actually looking forward to getting in
and testing all of the boards that way
have to hand and it is going to be a
busy few weeks if you enjoyed the video
and don't forget you can comment
underneath like subscribe maybe if
that's the sort of thing that you would
like I will be producing content thick
and fast now it's literally going to be
as quick as the benchmarks can go
because they do take a while because we
do run quite a few sometimes I think I
should do less but anyway this is the
tiniest one Rox Eric's LED for nightly
don't wind about the factors Intel there
will be plenty of the red team stuff
coming soon
[Music]
you
hi everyone is tiny Tom Logan back with
another video for you and today we're
actually going to be taking an early
look at the Maximus 12 extreme so we're
now on a Zed 4 90 tip set so we have
another iteration of stuff from Intel
and there's a new socket as well now
before we do get into the preview of the
board because that's all I can show you
today because of MBAs and I know some
people say what's the point without our
performance but it means we get to have
a decent look around the boards to see
what's going on cover quite a lot and
then when we come to actually reviewing
the board itself it means that don't
necessarily have to go into as much
detail when it means that the video
might not be an hour long but do you
want to do a little bit of housework
first I know there are going to be a lot
of people both AMD enthusiasts and in
general enthusiasts that are not going
to be fairly kind of happy about the new
platform but what I want to say is
having a look at the board today isn't
for me to talk about what the CPU is
bringing and what the you know like the
whole ecosystems bring in we're just
going to stay very focused on the
extreme and what they've managed to do
with the platform that intel has given
them when we do get to do the main CPU
review which at the moment the NDA is
the 20th of next month so the 20th of
may 2020
that's then when we can get right down
into the nitty gritty and start to
dissect everything that I've done and
delivered to the board manufactures and
that's actually how I'm going to go
about all of my reviews of the board as
well is that I'm going to stay very
board centric what the boards have
managed to do with what they delivered
them and that's what I would always do
as well because there's always kind of
someone it'll go oh you shouldn't even
bother reviewing them but then that
would make me biased and I can have my
opinions in the CPU review itself then I
move on and reviews review what the
board's managed to do with the processes
said the ecosystem that they deliver
with them so with that out of the way
let's have a look at the flagship rock
board the Maximus 12 extreme
[Music]
so I'm going to keep the format fairly
similar to the way that I would have
done things before but yes we are in a
new location now if you've not seen any
of the videos for a while and it is a
work in progress but comes in very
familiar packaging and then when we have
a gambler's around the back you can see
that they're talking about the big only
robust power solution which I will talk
to you about in depth although I cannot
strip the board until after I finished
my testing because I want to test it
doing the thermals and everything the
way it arrived so I will strip the ball
down in the main review which hopefully
you'll get to see on the 20th what we
can also see it's got dual ethernet as
well because there is a clam tier 10 G
and then the normal Intel 1 Gigabit
Ethernet going on as well and it does
actually when we have a look down on
down here Marvell actually I do
apologize it's Marvell ACTA Caen a QC
107 10 Gigabit Ethernet and then it's
the Intel I to to 5v 1 Gigabit Ethernet
where our selection of different USBs
available on it as well but inside the
box because the board is already out
I've already taken photos of all of this
so inside is a bit carnage but the main
thing that I want to get out the box
straight away is it does come with an
included Thunderball add-in card so you
can see around the back the type C's and
then your display port it does need PCI
Express 6 pin and then you've got a
couple of wires that you need to add on
the thunderbolt 1 and there's a USB one
as well so you can connect it all up
fairly kind of standard black shroud I
don't think you'd want to be modifying
this if you were going to be putting it
in but obviously you could pull the
shroud and everything off quite easily
and color-code it should you want to you
do get some other cables as well so this
is also for your Thunderbolt so you get
the mini display ports going into the
display port so you get those connectors
as well this is an extra m dot 2
adding card but it goes up like a memory
slot up there I'm pretty sure you would
have seen that but I'll show you it
connected in a bit something I did see
which I was a bit nervous about but I
was more happy that it was in the box
rather than fitted to the board is a
little itty bitty fan and it's for the
vrm should you need it and it does come
with a little bracket as well and when I
do do the main review I'll be doing
testing with it without it stressing the
bejesus out of it but it all looks kind
of nice and I don't know about you stood
here now looking at the quality in the
video with the lighting I'm actually
kind of liking the way this is feeling
at the moment because don't forget I've
not done a great deal of work here yet
you do get your Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
antenna is only twin connections on the
back some of the older ones with three
connections but we will test that it's
Wi-Fi six on the board anyway you do yet
look at this your drivers on a USB stick
now I will say that drivers on your USB
stick this will obviously be the launch
day drivers so if you're good at your
home work or your house work however
you'd like to put it periodically update
these because you don't want to keep
going back to the plane you know like
the original ones you didn't want to try
and keep it updated and the fact is a
USB means there's no excuse for you not
to do that but look at this you get a
keyring uh yeah maybe it'll end up on
someone's like belt loop or you know you
could have your keys on it if you want
it's obviously what it's designed for oh
this is the amount for that little itty
bitty family I said to you about it's a
few spots where it could go up here but
it's not mentioned in any of the
paperwork and one of the things I will
say is the Asus review guide is actually
so comprehensive it's one of the best
I've read read for a while but nowhere
in it doesn't mention that fan it is
really annoying this is your add-in card
that you can put in as well again it
needs a 6 pin PCI Express power so if
you're going to be running all these
extra adding cards you're going to need
to make sure that your power supply has
a few spare there is a cable that runs
off the back of it as well this is for
your note because there's an Asus no
on the board this is probably the only
thing that I've actually seen that uses
it so far though there is a node in and
a no doubt but you get a couple of year
I'm sorry a couple of RGB connectors on
it I also get some thermal connectors
for you put thermal probes on then there
are four pin fan headers all the way
around it as well and it's all self
controlled you can run it through the AI
suite when it's separately but that's
your Abdeen card I am starting to get to
the feeling it does by the way screw on
to an SSD but I can't help but feel that
it would be nice if the all the fan
headers kind of pointed outwards and it
was like a cover over it or something
because a lot of cases now are getting
glass back panels but again just maybe
it being horrific we picky just brain
farting my thoughts out so looking
inside the box that little bit more
there are all the normal screws that you
would expect to be able to tie
everything down with for your M twos and
stuff like that
you do get a normal four pin extension
RGB cable and there isn't addressable
three pin as well because obviously the
two cables are different three pins is
addressable four pin is normal RGB or
RGB and a RGB then you do get your three
thermal probes I could zoom you in much
more but you know what's that thermal
probe looks like don't you boys and
girls and then you do get eight in total
save cables and they're all black and
they are all braided as well so they're
moving away from the normal plasticky
rubbery ones you have to get in decent
SATA braided cables in the boxes of
these now which is a nice touch but you
kind of expect it when you can kind of
assume that this won't be a cheap board
I'm not allowed to say about prices yet
by the way
I think that's later ah
you also get this and I've already had
it out and had a play with it but yeah
that's what she said it's a rock
screwdriver you can see the spinning end
and that's so that you can put the
screwdriver into your hand
and push and still be able to spin it
which is kind of nice you get a couple
of different cross head Phillips heads
then you also do get this pretty cool
little gadget which is extended but it's
just got a round end on it and that's
because it's magnetic it is magnetic
when I there we go when I took pictures
of it don't just stick on the end it's
not the most magnetic thing in the world
and sadly it's only magnetic right on
the very end so if you're going at the
side it's not going to pick it up I do
think though if you really wanted to you
would hold it nice but it static going
on you would be able to magnetize that
more if you had decent really a magnet
at home
I normally magnetize all of my tools
anyway enough of in the box okay so the
board itself I am going to give you a
good look around the board we're going
to go slowly around it don't forget you
can pause at any time as well and please
just keep in mind that there are certain
factors in the NBA that I'm not allowed
to show yet so I can't show you it built
can't show you it fully powered up or I
cannot show you the socket and all of
that sort of thing so you know just kind
of bear with me looking at the board
itself does look and feel fairly premium
two point three kilograms it's got a
hefty weight to it and that's partly
down to the amount of kicking the tripod
but the amount of metal that we have
down here this is actually metal up here
as well which is very unusual I would be
very used to this section up here being
plastic with like an OLED screen in it
or something like that be it
OLED screens actually down here will
show you it with a cheeky powerup in a
minute not with the CPU in it because
then that way I can skirt around the NDA
but there is an awful lot going on on
the board a big difference between all
of the boards that we are going to see
previews reviews all of that sort of
stuff
is what's going on around the socket and
that's because a lot of the boards have
an awful lot of power delivery available
whether we're going to need that yet we
don't
No so the asus we've got some big chunky
heatsinks going on this heatsink here
actually kind of goes up and around the
back of the socket as well and until I
get to strip it properly I'm not sure
how they're connected but looking at it
the this aluminium bit doesn't appear to
be attached to this aluminium bit but
there is an awful lot of alley going on
so I'd be surprised if they've not done
something with it but big aggressive
chunks taken out of it
whether that proves to then be a good
heat to spit this spicery disperser ii
or whatever it's called anyway whether
it works or not we will have to wait and
see but it's an eight phase-- vrm and
then it's parallel wide as we've been
used used to with the boards previously
out into then 16 power stages each one
of those power stages has a TD a two one
four nine zero Infineon MOSFET on it
that's capable of 90 amps so we've got
sixteen ninety and capabilities going
into that CPU socket I might remind you
that's the same Infineon circuitry that
they used for the zenith two extreme
alpha that was built to provide the
power for a three nine ninety X and did
so with ease so the fact that they've
got this all on here for a tiny itty
little bitty CPU makes me strike my chin
and go hmm so that's something that we
can debate about and discuss when we do
do the full review but it's definitely
something I think is going to be worth
keeping an oil just for funds I kid you
not
I've just used mr. Sheen to stop my
tripod from TWiki squeaking when I move
it up and down because I don't have any
oil it's not looking for any way up in
the top left-hand corner we see our 2 8
pin CPU connectors don't have to use
both but they are there
if you want to have a big overclock or
you're really only pushing things and
then we see our first fan header just
there then if we pan across and I'll do
it this way with the actual moving the
board rollin there we go then we can see
our two CPU fan head is there we've got
a couple of our GB connectors there as
well we've got a plane for pin and then
you got your addressable three pin now
the four fan headers up here they call
in those the the rad headers and there
are more down the bottom all of the
normal fan head is capable of up to one
amp and 12 watts
have to admit that normally when I run
like CPU head is up here and stuff if
I'm running a 360 mill a i/o I'll quite
often put them all in one header and
I've never had any problems so what I
would then do is buy a PWM 3 pin
splitter sorry pwm 3 fan splitter so
three fans into one header never had any
issues I think he would only come in to
any issues if you were using some
massive amperage draws like maybe the
3000 rpm not to us or something like
that anyway so you get another 4 found
editing your post to read out up here
and then if i zoom you in you can
actually see the writing on the board
for what we're doing so you've got the
all in raid 0 anyway you can see your
the lights there your LED lights they're
there your post lights to get the CPU
the D round the VGA and the boot so you
get it will flag those up as it's going
through the post process and let you
know how their boards doing I know a lot
of you are already going to know this
but I'm trying to give you as much
detail as possible on case you don't
slow mode switch there ln2 mode switch
see I'm literally reading these down the
side as I'm showing you then obviously
start flex key that's pretty cool you
can assign that to do what you want
actually but it will work as a reset
switch if you don't do anything with it
retry button that's actually pretty cool
if you
over-talk fails doesn't post
straightaway if you restart too many
times it can end up hanging you get that
annoying you windows issues kind of
flagging up do you want to restart to
undo this that will actually stop that
happening safe boot is pretty cool as
well
get to a point with your overclock that
you're happy with you know you're
absolutely fine with and save it to the
safe boot in the BIOS if you do that
when you hit that button it will boot to
that and it will give you a chance to
it's just a real quick way of just being
able to get into Windows then as we go
down 24 pin header down there we go USB
3.0 Gen 1 USB 3.2 i'm actually sure
whether they're Gen 1 or gen 2 I think
they're genteel on those and it's just
one and two because there's a couple of
pairs we do have some USB 3.2 Gen 1 and
2 stuff around the back of the board as
well in fact I do believe they are I
don't know I'd have to look it up
pausing briefly to have moved the camera
you can then see USB 3 coming outside
their new hats 3.1 then you have a 6 8
satyrs get another USB 3 head of there
and then we get down to the bottom
corner which is the water cooling zone
now you can see that you have a water
flow header there and that so that you
can check the water flow within our PM
water flow add-on you plug it into that
and the board and keep an eye on the RPM
of it then you have a couple of thermal
senses to the left of that and you've
also got your front panel header here
and then just above that you've got the
bios switch to be able to switch between
two biases which can be hand if you're
overclocking you can have the most
recent one and the one previous keep
them separate again don't forget to
update them if you are moving on through
your bosses later on those two water
pump headers there they are actually 3
amp 36 Watt headers so that you can run
water pumps powered directly from them
if you want they're also a really good
place that if you want to plug in a fan
you just want it in your overclocking
straight away full speed plug it into
that because they run at full speed
unless you change them so that's a
really good thing to know it's also a
really good place that you can nail in a
very high amperage draw fan should you
want to as well but then when we move
that course you can see that there are
another four fan headers going on there
and they're naming them all the rad fans
and then we can see two internal USB
twos which is great for those of you
that have those a iOS and even power
supplies that want to connect into that
to be able to feed data back into the OS
your Asus node port which you need for
the add-on fan card that we spoke about
before then you do get a couple of
couple more RTB connectors one is three
one is two I've just seen I've gotten
past it one is three and one is to
someone's address one one's not let me
come over here get this header and
basically that header is a molex
connector you don't have to connect it
if you don't want to it's there just to
be able to feed extra power into the PCI
Express for in the old days if you were
running multiple cards and big
overclocks and stuff like that but it's
getting kind of negated now but it will
be an option there for hardcore
overclock is and the like if we were to
pull this cover off there are a couple
of em doc two connections underneath and
you can see that it does have the
supreme FX all you have a thing going on
there and the onboard audio and the
onboard audio with the ace of stuff is
always fairly good and it is great for
most people really like unless you're an
audiophile onboard audio with these
boards it's going to be um it's actually
a robb supreme FX s one two two zero
eight channel codec and it's the ESS yes
902 three DAC and then the RC four five
eight zero op amp if you're interested
in all of the onboard audio goodness
round to the back the i/o of the board
so zooming in BIOS clear switch fairly
simple
then you also get the BIOS flashback
switch and you can see the bass
flashback header there little tip for
you if you're going to use BIOS flash
back you need to make sure the name of
the BIOS file has been set correctly
there have got tools and it's always
been a little bit confused in but if you
go onto the USB stick when the drivers
on it if you go and have a look at the
BIOS file in there all you need to do if
you get a more recent BIOS file let's
change it to the name this same that's
on that USB stick and then the BIOS
flash back will work press and hold it
you'll see the blue light starts to
flash when it starts the fast really
quickly that means it's working just let
it do its job if it doesn't flash really
quickly and it just goes off quite
quickly it means that the name is
probably not correct so as long as you
make sure that names correctly it should
work and that's best bit of advice I can
give you for BIOS flash back anyway
you've got USB 3.1 nail a couple of USB
twos as well your for more USB 3.1 there
come down here now the USB type-c is a
USB 3 point - Jen - and then the eyes a
USB 3 point to Gen 1 you've then got
your to Eastern it's that we spoke about
before the Tingy and then a 2.5 g I did
say previously that it was one gigabit
my bad
it's two point five gigabit I do
apologise Wi-Fi six couple of headers
they're already shown you the antenna
and then you can see the audio out in
the back you've got the optical out and
then you've got the other three point
five million Jack's those 3.5 million
Jack's also light up as well so that
makes it easier for you to do stuff band
the back your system when you're
scrambling around in the middle of the
Lord so this boys and girls is a little
bit of a grey area because I'm not
allowed to show you the board powered up
but I kind of take that as being with
the CPU in and a system and it all
completely powered up rather than me
effectively just short-circuiting
tricking it to give us a light show so
that's all I am doing if Intel want to
ask is it's a light show so that I can
show you the RGB now obviously you can
set all the modes and stuff if you want
and this is really just for me to give
you a show of
everything that comes on so you've got
white power and reset switches up here
in the RGB on the eye and up this side
of the heatsink there which is kind of
nice you can also see the little only
Deanna lashing there which with the
software you can change to put your own
stuff on it as well you can set it to
show certain temperatures if you want
frequencies it's pretty kind of like
fluid and you can even stick your own
logo on it if you want more RGB at the
top and then if we go to flick the board
around what I can also show you is as I
said to you before the audio checks
light up so it's a big board with a lot
going on weighs a ton awful lot of power
capabilities around that socket and only
time is going to tell with the main
review whether it's going to need it one
of the things that will say is add there
will be on launch day being the 20th of
May a lot of other previews going live
some of them are over there for you now
and I've only just realized that the
tuff box is upside down you may have
seen it in the other shot but they are
over there I'm obviously incredibly
professional but they are there and they
you can have a look at those and there
will be previews from other brands live
as well with the full reviews coming
later on there are things like price I'm
not allowed to say about yet a price
will definitely change between now and
the launch anyway but it's also still
technically under NDA I know that
there's going to be questions about like
PCI Express and stuff like that but
again kind of a little bit limited into
what we can actually talk about until
the main CPU launch because today's very
much a you know look at the boards and I
can't actually kind of skirt around
stuff but there were a lot of questions
put to Intel in a recent online kind of
conference debate where they talked to
us about all of the new stuff and again
that's all kind of being bumped out
a bit later on but we will cover that it
will get done but that is that there are
going to be plenty more you can click
underneath if you like a lot more
in-depth look at the specifications and
everything that's going on on the board
on the OT 3d website but for now at
least this has been the tiniest Logan
with another video for you
[Music]
you
[Music]
this video sponsored by SC decom SC
decom is a marketplace website where you
can purchase game keys and software keys
with no hassle SED g.com offers a legit
Windows 10 Pro key for only $17 this is
the same Keys I use on my PC builds but
to make it more awesome that will be
giving another 12% discount just type
our coupon code ex P and C to get it for
only $15 you know have your legit
Windows 10 key license all set but in a
more affordable price
Phil in the Philippines purchasing is
very easy you can use paypal payment or
g cash visit SCD key dot-com now i'll
put the link in the video description
below
so thank you SCD key calm for sponsoring
this video
welcome back guys with another video so
in today's video guys manga unbox Putin
on ROG gaming motherboard único policy
ro district's new z4 90 - a gaming table
or circle along sir ROG Massimo's at all
formula so next video that so at um
elaborate Oh guys this is for DN o z4 19
chips
paladin's upcoming Intel and change
no no alabaster processor so stay tuned
chaos wait long embargoes is April 30
for the an immunoassay unboxing guys pop
a little less a new unboxing me 2018
schedules
dunno performance or young benchmark and
on cpu intel so the pneumonic eat our
young performers and CPU overclock and
immigrant aho
I don't know whom we began Tainan
process or update : hey guys come ma
totally umbilical detour para hopefully
Salamanca rinaldin build new tour master
by audience are launching data on organs
May 20 so it ammonia and you may 20
Polamalu little now in among performance
or abuse on processor in a new 10
generation no mono non Intel ok una han
community rog 6490 - a gaming so
interested all Co the top because of the
color this is a color white not all the
way to generate earnings
Union so that I become gonna see ROG
Matson was told for Mila he will in a
video Nalepa guys but he potable and say
no recollection upon my box Tito
alright so guys when I'm gonna not eat
OC r OG 6z 490 - a gaming Ashley Marin a
Salaam white Natori also under not a so
spring nine segments or young lineup non
gaming motherboard nila CRO districts
cos a young Lena pillar
well as pasilla color no white or made
white accent or may silvery Magon on
soap or was it dark gray or black
amalgam color combination neon Manila
bacillus a guru fashion demand or Myr
I'm in the Gahanna Umaga and Sigma I'm
in the hanim are logistic snow white all
the white Magadan loosen your plate oh
you ROG striction apparent white and a
holler team so it only human guys so
good it's a mother Brunetto as a merits
along GPU marina Salem was a meirin-sama
Kampala I think we love SATA power
supply and was I think the Brazilian
winter attire or last December November
it also my postal a oh yeah so guys
unbox more than a tent oh so this is a
ro districts z4 19 - a gaming that will
support the upcoming z4 and 9p chipset
offered that pen Gen Intel processors we
all up number box guys but on the
impacts Leto is my RGB thing I know
hologram Atari bargain and ROG logo tops
a team designed on one no no I'll give
me motherboard up was soon texts no
pattern New York signature the text
pattern the ROG tapas Aguilar there and
that was ROG logo and Ewan so but so be
totally good guys I'm not gettin your
it's ROG 6490 - a gaming's at us stop
posting designer motherboard market on
you guys Nisha totally I know why you
PCB nice block so marketer had none IOUs
be my support this is a px form factor
opposition supported CP Union
you suppose the multi-gpu mono and so
all the features and you monitor nidito
silly pinyin attend or a quick preview
long night and I did some mother
Brunetto young Chantry guys supported
put on RGB man push on illuminated you
did some i io shroud the end so mccain
the topic Camilo also guys marry some
pre mountain IO shield older white then
Aniceto okay so let's do the unboxing
Tecla nominating element then we'll take
a closer look doing some motherboard but
but organized Wow
[Applause]
sending William white boom boom boom
white diamond great request option
marina always building and gagaga guys
who young ROG stickers light great
suppose white women as ROG ebay before
this is for the fan if I am undecided
for the Lego
tapaswi my angular and veto then you ROG
tax pattern and so me my label them for
the SATA and what that mean Donna case
green stickers up and a SATA cables so
the lava is not young right angle
so I think this is for the fan Marin you
manga and you guys you zip z4 90 - a - f
or - yatta maricella mounting and ito
for the fan I think a young fan lianca
say but he taught lots of erm ROG and
put a lanyard Paris on keychain to
thermal probe at all tapas and at all
this is pretty addressable and this for
the standard poor pin addressable strip
in tapas screws for m dot 2 so del what
we n I did made parody toe for a no
padding design and you cable tell you
guys Marisa I know thank you
purchasing below oh there enough
whenever money I'm defecating added
color red laughs Gannon suppose guys
manual or user guide so no hot color
gray puja then you see the driver
so always updater driver to the latest
for you
but I will upon internet access you can
use this parole on an optical drive
so on and so that's it for the unboxing
then ROG 6490 - a gaming color white
[Applause]
hi guys I'm removing the wow guys
Commission Oh Misha totally white
no way and ganda white yeah and so
it in gaming motherboard guys let's take
a closer look but I'm appreciate not and
let's take a closer look case did small
bird districts Z 490 - a gaming ok
Snapple you find an avenue mounting
leader as a matter D - a - e gaming
nepali marinum so you find out any
opportunity to sign so I'm pinned upon
single either is a little high NVRAM
heatsink yeah you know so I'm fully pony
apparent brush you finish or aluminum
and Michonne brush aluminum finish you
follow white guys and Matt and the
textured I indicia textured but I mean
matte finish your order whitener
d2 semi I or shield ROG logo ROG top was
me ROG logo did on a hollow gray light
gray Paula jim bakker greenido parent
gunmetal and good no harm in two
opposite animal this is for the RGB at
all don't percent of me check out the
mommy on guys
so it'll guys pin a little in the
release of it no Intel so you in pool
you 1200 I think 1200 in upgrading
during socket each an intention is from
1151 Donna monkeys in Manila you know
one in Lille and 1200 so 1200 okay
himself at night so open
so okay follow me guys when you do use a
pin no Intel they know so all that
happened to check canary
the other case against the gun only that
the own salesman on computer parts and I
mean really so animal Intel Intel mouths
words you know double check put aluminum
and pin a pilot an immense and we don't
bend pin or some kinda no internal bird
compares AMD so look at those under guys
PCB now flat not flat you corner color
black so for the CPU connector Orion
power EPS smell and it lasts for napela
so additionally Scylla go check those
pin guys and thousand new ethos is Marin
push on feature in a pro code to so it
no biggie Tonya beam up in snail you
know solidness all didn't wash up Aaron
hello or in butas Melinda human past not
oriented and so Marilyn young anodized
metal arm were not the young
dissipation Tata
so moving on guys for the RAM slot up at
pooyan I think I don't know who end up
being supported the pollen poon Hong
Kong Alania supported my ramp so Cynthia
not as I'm a 20 so CPU here in my header
so that LuAnn I get the low Coppola CPU
fan and offer the pump
topo smeared it on RGB so gentle guys in
RGB Anya
mess in improper Nelly on my lighting
effects known must mobilize a chaja are
responsible you ma Felicia hoppers a gen
1 tapas next Marin put it on for
troubleshooting use LED is a boot or in
supposed
Camilla usage an aluminum panel
troubleshoot for the 24 pin connector
next is for the up front panel data
pooyan so that's for the USB 3.1 gen2
connector so it in such an one front
panel Tinian guys so we have a 6 SATA
connectors
tapas in my front panel header dito the
unions a debug and RGB or another RGB
guys asylum to the long tall balls okay
oh that's for Deanna guys so pretty
matte effects audio so a teen chipset
heat sink is scholar initializing you
padam gunmetal or silver fish and top
Snuggie extended so me and that two
slots and so we have it too and that's a
dead tree Allah
nito nito nito and so PCH or use a
chipset guys for the PCIe slot 2 x 1600
nice Mary Jean Grey and first a steel
pot leaning and normally relegate
alaih-is-salaam is a time 16 ian
normally graces time 16 Dominion Olivia
peritoneum Dylan on an extended ready to
submit Delavan slab which is nice
cheerio
so we have a HDMI and use a DP then the
wrong a USB tapas main BIOS flash valid
ID Tonya Gentoo and the USB or you types
irreversible tapas engine one tapas
young Gigabit LAN for an internet
connection you and you my audio ports
detour and so many push and promote the
i/o shield which is Encanto for your
white engineering attacks Tito and RJ
logo I like this motherboard guys so a
young guys you know closer look now ROG
Strix z4 90 - a gaming and Papa telegram
heatsink Miele
allow in Cologne RGB guys some abolition
para un
you know you nice so detailed on urg
pina so long little so many PCH worship
set
so yeah deterring our Jeep integrase and
the world a mini solar cycle at the by
default to dress or bowling super smooth
the ceramide build a little white black
and a team
ROG RGB do you have it adilyn Puyo
unboxing and quick preview our logistics
z4 19-8 gaming continue I know Anita
performance or you CPU or you bargain
processor night launch Intel and
generation now hopefully guys Mahorn um
Intel CPU in App Engine a sample per
mcgraw Serena bill and some bug build
now ROG all white or black and white
nano or silver white or light gray now
white team Magnum because I got a new
called your waiter
so you and there you have it so what do
you think of the young baboon gaming
motherboard the ROG you zz4 90 - a
gaming for me guys junior impression
coding sobre an asana no guna panel
Agena whatõs SSRN semana subscriber bill
comer I'm hearing the hang up now ROG no
white build or main white or black or
silver Wagoner Italian Munna Marin DTOs
AMD or x57 ships at wallah Pissarro
districts so internal Anila guy so you
might in Dolphin boy John Marin upon
gaming motherboard no white C ROG tricks
so yeah internal anatomy launched during
May 2009 allow me ROG facebook fanpage
anon spoonula Dona availability Orion
pricing at overlap upon seen as a
bizarre men good get the know each other
guys ma preciate upon Nikita you're
in personam gaming Malibu natok so again
thank you asus rog impostor of detour
digger solito passing getting a mother
bird behind you and so i said i'm a big
a neato so do you have it so thank you
guys for tuning in the hallowed section
so like the video subscribe and i'll see
you on my next video guys and Basco up a
lot of issues rog maximus 12
formula so waiting on the next unboxing
video now right so guys take care stay
safe lollipop Oh lolli reports mainland
residential I'll be boy monkey boy so
bye-bye
[Music]
and you know how to forget
all the wrongs and every son
[Music]
hey guys we have something very special
for you today
Intel is releasing its temperature in
desktop CPU and we've got our hands on a
z4 90 motherboard right here I have an
ROG Strix said 490 a gaming well reward
from ASOS and boy she's a beauty I
really like this white and silver
accents on it would you guys think let's
check out what else we have in a box
he'll have the manual seemingly some ROG
stickers a keychain for SATA cables a
RGB and a RGB extension cables a thermal
resistor this is an HD one it's a fan
holder for your theorem some cable ties
a bunch of m dot 2 accessories Oh lovely
it's a DVD with all your drivers and
software and best for last is a thank
you card thank you for purchasing this
ROG Strix product you've made the choice
of Champions suite right back to the
board this is a fully featured board for
the upcoming LGA 1200 socket the first
thing that jumps into my eyes are the
beefy heat sinks over the VRM together
with the 8 plus 4 CPU power headers it
looks like you'll support a very hungry
chip with a good amount of overclocking
potential here will also find four dimm
slots for a dual channel memory with
maximum total support of 128 gigabytes
this board supports Fram with speeds up
to four thousand eight hundred megahertz
but be aware not all RAM is supported
Asus does have a qualified vendor list
on their website so check it out below
we have the three PCIe gen3 slots x 16 1
x 4 and 1 x 1 slot also we have 2 MD 2
slots supporting basically any size
drives it even comes with a heat sink
for one of them note that the first slot
can be run in peace AE x 4 or a SATA
mode there is another aimed or 2 slot
with aqui es socket where you can
install a Wi-Fi module should you wish
to purchase that separately on the
bottom right we also find the 6 SATA
ports so you're pretty set for storage
this board has 7 PWM fan headers which
is more than you would normally expect
one of them is for empty cooling and the
other one is for vrm to complete that
little very own fan bracket of course
you can use these for whatever you like
data bottom we find front audio 2 years
B two headers front i/o and oddly enough
it has a fundable header on their right
hand side we find two USB 3.0 gen one
headers one type C and one type a Poe
far five gigabit versions
we'll also have to RGB 12-volt headers
and won't are addressable RGB fire fault
header on the back we find hdmi 1.4
display ports 1.4 to USB to ports BIOS
flash back button two years be 3.2 gen 2
for USB 3.2 gen 1 port two point five
gigabit Intel network port and a full
array of audio connections this board
also includes color debug LEDs which is
another sign that this board will be
good match for the overclockers I'm
looking forward to seeing this board
paired up with the new CPU in the very
near future
for more details and pricing check out
the link in the description alone I hope
it was useful don't forget to smash that
thumbs up and subscribe for more
we'll see you guys in the next one
hey everyone this is Sean from dream
contact it's going to be a very very
exciting time once again Intel is set to
launch a 10th generation comment link as
CPUs in the next month or two and we've
already seen tons of leaks of the
upcoming 400 series motherboards well
today we're happy to confirm those leaks
with the brand-new rog Maximus 12
extreme from Asus
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we get our hands on one of the first LG
at 1200 socket motherboards for 10th
generation CPUs the ROG Maximus 12
extreme it is one of issuses most
expensive line of motherboards offering
premium features across the board so
before we get into the Maximus let's
quickly talk about the new z4 90
platform and what we know so far the LGA
1200 socket is a brand new socket for
10th generation desktop comment League s
CPUs we've already seen tenth generation
CPUs and laptops and law finally singing
them trickle down into the desktop
counterpart
unfortunately these new CPUs are not
backward compatible with ninth
generation motherboards vice versa so do
take note if you're planning on getting
a new system this means that your 9000
series CPUs won't work with the new fall
z4 and I did mother bought your new
tenth generation CPUs won't work with
your older 300 series motherboards like
a z3 90b 360 and so on the CPU stem
cells are technically still skylake
refreshes so it will be interesting to
see how far Intel can continue to push
the same 14 nanometer architecture from
2015 and beyond the other hand is using
a more advanced 7 nanometre architecture
with the Zen CPUs from what we've
gathered the new flagship CPU will be
the I 9 10 nine hundred K we were
never-before-seen 10 cores and 20
threads on a consumer chip it has a base
frequency of 3.7 gigahertz and has a
single call to level up to 5 point 2
gigahertz with an astounding on paper at
least 4.9 gigahertz all core boost it is
clear to me that Intel has finally
learned two things from the current
battle with AMD number one more cost
matter and number two more threats
matter now this is clearly evident
throughout the entire stack of CPUs with
all the new Intel CPUs supporting hyper
threading from the eye 910 900k all the
way down to the eye tree 10 100 more
calls and more thorough favorite
productivity workloads meaning content
creators video editors can rejoice with
both Intel's film high clock speeds as
well as the new focus on bringing up the
core count so why on these new CPUs
backward-compatible this is because the
new LG 1200 socket uses a modified
design of the previous generations LG 8
one 151 with 49 more pins on it so
that's one one five one plus
and you get 1,200 so now you know how
the socket is named this improves power
delivery and offer support for future
incremental IO features of which we'll
talk a little bit more about that later
on but the future support is most likely
going to be PCI Jenna form now AMD has
already had this for some time now so
it's good to see Intel getting into the
game so now that we've got some context
let's get back to the Maximus we can't
cover any performance numbers for the
board just yet so this will be an
unboxing to give you a quick overview of
what you'll be getting
okay so we're gonna quickly unbox the
ROG Maximus 12 extreme and see what's
inside the box so this is the
motherboard itself we should go through
in a bit a little bit more detail
shortly so you can see that okay but
what we're more interested in to see is
what it comes with so on in the Box you
can see a couple of braided cable and
rog key fob a whole bunch of other
cables as well in some LED connectors
some power connectors and RGB expansion
kits of the Eren fan it's required okay
and they also come with a rog multi-bit
screwdriver it's the end up to daughter
cut that will expand your end or two
stories by two slides it's pretty neat
we first saw this in the RG impact X by
Sandy bought from issues as well these
are the why five six and ten are and
you'll see a welcome card I think so
it's the RG logo on it thank you for
purchasing this out your mother bought
some text follow us on asus rog and a
star g on instagram discharge you get
some stickers and you also get a fan
header I think these are getting more
and more common with high end bots our
fan dedicated fan header as well as RGB
hello and more m dot two screws
alright let's dive straight in to the
motherboard itself one glance you can
tell how premium this motherboard is
it's covered in thick heavy aluminum
heat sinks with mirror finish just to
top it off the rog logo is a centerpiece
on the board and it doesn't shy away
from being loud and proud the back plate
also screams ah regime with Republic of
gamers branding in bold text across the
board
so just some brief specs we we know that
there are two m dot two slots supporting
nvme or SATA n dot - dryers this is
hidden underneath the aluminum battery
so the key feature here is the
additional 2 m dot 2 slots via an ro G
dot oh boy
now the only other time we have seen
this is the Stella Express the only
impact from a suit as well so it's
really nice to see them bring this tech
to other boards you also get two PCIe
gen3 not pci gen 4 but pci gen3
x16 slots and one PCIe gen3 x4 slots the
Maxima supports two-way si or 3-way
crossfire which is sort of a pity
because at this price point at this
top-of-the-line bought this sort of
negates creators as they would likely be
wanting to put something like four GPUs
for rendering there were loads in octane
for example so going down the boat we
see a star and flex key button are the
flex key is new it's a it's currently
set as a reboot by default but it can be
configured for other quick access
features like activating stage boot or
even control your aura lighting you also
see the kyouko LED post code which is
extremely helpful for troubleshooting
boot issues I there's also tree switches
that never seen before on motherboards
with the manual saving this is only for
developers and technicians on the bottom
we see the high-end supreme FX audio
chip a thunderbolt header built in a RGB
headers and a whole bunch of fan headers
on the left of the board we see a number
of standard SATA connectors and also two
USB three-point to Gen 2 front IO
connectors going to the back of the ball
we can see from left to right a BIOS
flash back button a clear CMOS button
followed by two USB to type a and six
USB 3.2 gen 1 type a 2 USB 3.1 gen2 type
a 1 USB 3.2 gen2 type-c one USB 3.2 Gen
2 by 2 type C making that a total of 12
USB ports moving on we see fast
connectivity with one Intel 2.5 qubit
Ethernet as well as one model 10
Gigabit Ethernet so it's really nice to
see not the standard one Gigabit
Ethernet on such a high-end boy the
board also comes standard with Wi-Fi six
or ax 200 and wrapping up we see the
optical out as well as your standard
audio jacks we're not allowed to
disclose any performance numbers or
really try out the board yet but stay
tuned to launch day for the full review
of the board with that we'll come to the
end of the unboxing a shout out for Asus
for sending the board over and we can't
wait to put it with the I nine ten nine
hundred K we have more zphone re
unboxing videos coming soon so do
subscribe hit the bell icon for
notifications and with that stay home
and stay safe
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
today is a strict day one of my
favorites the Strix motherboards are all
about gaming gaming and gaming and they
are probably the most anticipated
motherboard of any given season today we
are going to preview the Strix Z 490 -
II a total different animal than its
predecessor we have a much more powerful
theorem a PCIe for ready PCB and when I
say Strix
I don't know it's kiss me that little I
need to get out of confinement quick the
Strix Z 490 has nothing to do with its
predecessor but it has a lot to do with
its AMD x5 70 version the Strix x5 70
which I have reviewed and you should
take a look at if you haven't done so
yet and it's no wonder since both boards
have been designed to support PCIe 4.0
standards and to support higher count as
we've seen on Intel side until now but
it's also a very I want to say dishonest
but a tricky motherboard in the sense
that even though it's a PCIe 4.0
compliant motherboard the processor
right now the 10th generation Intel
processor which will come in a couple of
weeks is not so basically gonna have to
wait for another year the 11th
generation of Intel processor until we
can unlock the piece a 4.0 ability of
this motherboard and for this review and
this year we will not be able to take
advantage of the bandwidth improvement
that entails back to the motherboard
district is the entry level of the
republic of gamer series asus very
enthusiastically driven family of
motherboards and much
pensive so the Strix is he 490 goes
head-to-head against excellent hours Zi
490 Pro the MSI's carbon series and the
very worthy
tyshee series from asrock now starting
with the obvious the z4 90 chipset can
both support PCIe 3 and PCIe 4 standards
it will depend on which CPU you run it
with 10 generation Intel CPU will allow
a PCIe 3 standard and 11 generation
Intel processor will unlock the PC a 4.0
abilities of our board effectively
doubling its available bandwidth apart
from this the z4 90 chipset is nothing
but a slightly upgraded the 390 with a
better Wi-Fi integrated model but that's
about it but worth noting unlike its AMD
counterparts we do not see a chipset fan
on the heatsink hinting at a
particularly heat efficient chipset
probably running at anywhere between 6
to 8 watts which makes the z4 natty
chipset very very heat efficient board
wise district z4 90 it is a 6 layer ATX
motherboard a significant upgrade
compared to the Strix z3 94 PCB layers
but something I was expecting coming
from a PC a 4 point already motherboard
it will better isolate your boards
component signal and differences when
running bandwidth intensive tasks giving
us a more durable and stable
overclockers and because it also entails
a more complex manufacturing process
this is where most of the premium you're
paying is hiding CPUs ok twice we do
have the new LGA 1200 CPU socket which
is a 49 pin upgrade from the previous
day 1151 socket and also means that it
is not backward compatible and
technologically wise it's hard to
explain because the 8th 9th 10th
generation of Intel processors are all
based on the very same 40 nanometer
skylake architecture and since they are
all PCI III there is really not much of
a need to have a new CPU socket and in
need to have a new motherboard all
together but that's a point I'll be
making again
later on in this review we are my eyes
has nothing to do with its predecessor
and closely follows the AMD version of
this board we are dealing with 1650
Empire stages 14 of which are CPU
centric they are paired into seven
phases delivering a whopping seven
hundred amps to our poor Intel CPU
obviously this is much much more power
than a ten core would need and it does
point out at a greater number of
physical core for the 11th generation of
Intel processor next year hit twice well
the board has everything it needs to
face the intense heat developed by a 700
M CPU centric vrm first we do have a six
layer PCB meaning a greater heat
dissipation throughout our board second
the 700 amps are spread amongst 14 power
surges meaning more editing surface and
finally we have this imposing three
stages heatsink linked by a copper pipe
for faster thermal transfer and all
these points converge towards a very
cool vrm even in the most demanding
continuous load definitely a welcome
change coming from the Z 390 version of
the Strix and an enormous kudos to Asus
for this memory wise the Strix can
support up to 128 gigabytes of ddr4 ram
in a dual channel configuration it is
overclockable up to whooping 4.8
gigahertz which is considerably more
when compared to its predecessor and
something was gonna affect your
day-to-day performances right right away
so another big kudos choices for this
staying in the memory we do have to MDOT
to solid-state drives which can transfer
up to 32 gigabit per second nothing new
here but keep in mind that with the next
year 11 generation of Intel processor
and PC a 4.0 finally unlocked on this
board we will be able to see speeds up
to 64 gigabit per second for this very
same sticks but that also translates in
both cases in a lot of heat and that is
why each of our sticks have been
equipped with brothers thick and heavy
thermal padded it shields which should
be plenty to keep them from self
combusting they won't self combust it's
just an image and email
export wise we have six PCIe exports
three bachelors because again there are
single slots single speeds and 316 slots
with different speeds only the closest
one to your CPU can deliver up to 16
full bus speed meaning this is where
you'd want your video card to be placed
for optimal performances in a dual GPU
configuration our slots will be sharing
bandwidth in an 8x8 configuration and
finally the last one will further share
bandwidths giving us an 8x8 by 4
configuration so a great board for a
single or even a dual GPU configuration
hands the metallic reinforcements on
those 216 slots now again keep in mind
that on the 11th generation of Intel CPU
you will see this PCIe bandwidth double
with PCIe 4.0 enabled which arguably
gives this board a certain level of
future proofing storage rise we do have
our usual six SATA three plugs which can
all transfer to a slow and redundant 6
gigabit per second we can build pyramids
we can control thermonuclear reactions
we can make moose chocolate out of
chocolate with moose but we cannot do
away from the SATA 3.0 standard no we
can't go bigger Buckeye wise first let
me note the presence of a padded back IO
plate which was expected but always good
to see starting from the left we have to
display outputs for our integrated
graphic for second generation USB plugs
a BIOS flash back button they'll light
it to find one always a great idea to
have such an option especially to update
or even recover a quoted bias on the go
to five gigabit USB plugs for 10 gigabit
USB plugs including a Type C and here a
2.5 Gigabit LAN which is a very same
upgrade I had spotted on the prime Z 490
e a yeah a that I had reviewed last week
and that you should take a look at if
you haven't done so yet and something
that I was expecting because this 1
Gigabit LAN is is great but started to
bottom like a bunch of stuff I was doing
so definitely happy to say 2.5 Gigabit
LAN here and now o Wi-Fi 6ax 201 with
transfer rate up to 2.4 gigabit
second has a very same one we had on a
mdx 570 powered motherboard until today
for the past year
so again Intel catching up on its
competition and finally finally getting
there a rather premium s twel 20 will
take audio codec which fully benefits
from the six PCB layer since left and
right audio channel have been traced on
dedicated PCB layers and that will
really increase the static isolation of
our integrated audio and give us not
only a great gaming experience in terms
of acoustic but also a crystal-clear a
recording experience so big kudos to
aces for this front panel connector wise
we have two second-generation plugs one
five gigabit front panel connector ten
gigabit type-c front panel connector and
finally let's not forget our Thunderbolt
3 which will provide multiple monitor
support and transfer rates up to a
whopping 40 gigabit per second basics
are covered they here but still sad not
to see a second five gigabit per second
like why did it go
wait we we're cooling wise we have seven
PWM fan connectors including two of
which can be used for water pump so it
does have everything it has potentially
to run a single or even a dual custom
water cooling system and that's great
especially knowing that this is an
enthusiastic Lee driven motherboard but
I do have critics and for the one we've
seen my reviews for the past month or
two you know what I'm gonna say I am
very disappointed not to see hybrid
connectors as we've seen on ours and
gigabytes
hybrid connectors can support anything
you thread it going from the PWM fans to
the water pump including the water flow
sensor giving an unprecedent amount of
agility and enthusiasts nice to abort
them very disappointed not to see it
here because we are going to be stuck
with this board for the next two years
or so and so I really hope that in 2022
1 2023 Asus will actually catch up on
ours gigabyte and give us something with
hybrid connectors troubleshooting wise
well we almost have a full house and
easy
the burger and the booger as I usually
say great to guide us through the
general stages of our boot process but
most importantly we do have accurate
screen to refine our troubleshooting
with precision and having all of those
features will become very handy very
quickly in your advert tweaking quest of
CPU monster power seriously aces it very
good here finally this would not be a
strict motherboard without a blinding
cacophony of RGB nonsense starting with
an RGB strip hidden under the iron roof
and one under our chipset heat shield
and because big is not big enough we
also have four oppositely placed RGB
connectors two of which are addressable
in short if you ever wanted to send
Morse coded love letters to astronauts
in the International Space Station hell
with the strict motherboard now you can
in conclusion the Strix z4 90 II will
run you about three hundred dollars
before taxes that's about seventy
dollars more expensive than the Strix z3
in ninety its natural predecessor and
the question is is it worth it
I cannot emphasize enough how different
these two boards are one was developed
around the PCIe three standard the other
one piece a fourth standard and that
means more PCB layers better vrm etc etc
so those are really two different
generations all together but because the
10th generation of Intel processor is
still only piece a three were still
stuck in that previous world and even
though this board has everything it
needs to run PCA for it won't for
another year so if you are in 2020 right
now with z3 90 powered motherboard as if
or 90/10 generation Intel processor
combo does not bring enough on the table
to motivate a full motherboard plus
processor upgrade as it stands today it
will change next year with the 11th
generation of Intel processor but you
see that a full year in front of you to
save your money and enjoy your z3 90
build as it stands
today now if that is not your case and
you either have no build or just want to
upgrade to the z4 90th then that's
another story I mean not only is it a
great overclocker looking at 700 M so VR
and he also comes with a six layer PCB
at great troubleshooting features and an
overall sense of durability this board
will be lasting forever really forever
and with the PCIe 4.0 comes with a
certain level of future proofing so
indeed in that case the strict Z 490 is
the motherboard to beat and probably
where you money needs to be
[Music]
